SEATTLE — When the Tea Party Nation held its first national convention in Nashville, in February 2010, I signed up as a member because convention organizers said the media would be excluded. They broke that promise at the last moment, and a jostling scrimmage of reporters and camera crews was confined to a dais at the back of the hall where it became a handy target for derision. Whenever the “mainstream media” came under attack, we were encouraged to turn in our seats and exercise our lungs with boos or chants of “U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!” I thought of that scene often this past year and a half, when the mainstream media misjudged Donald J. Trump and portrayed him as a traveling mountebank, a rude stand-up comedian. Electoral math proved he couldn’t win. On democracy, race, religion, immigration, the law, press freedom, nearly everything he said promised a violation of the Constitution. It was impossible for him to be elected as president and commander in chief of the United States. But I had been to the Nashville convention, and I knew in my bones he would win. Impossible to guess it then, but my fellow attendees in 2010 — yearning for freedom from the tyranny of liberal intellectuals — would cohere into Mr. Trump’s base: richer and older than one might expect, and overwhelmingly white. But the real connection was less demographic or ideological than verbal. The Tea Partiers’ dream of ending political correctness and multiculturalism, of a simpler, more common-sensical politics, and of a strongman who would “tell it like it is” has come true in the figure of a coarsegrained New York billionaire and celebrity game-show host. It was Mr. Trump who picked up the baton of birtherism during his 2011 soundings for a presidential run. And it is he who has inherited the mantle of speaking in public like a well-oiled barfly from the man who turned out to be the star of the Nashville show: Andrew Breitbart, founder of the eponymous right-wing media outlet. The venue in 2010 was the Gaylord Opryland Resort, a vast hotel with acres of indoor gardens. Tour boats cruise past waterfalls along an artificial river lined with palm trees and exotic flora. The more expensive rooms overlook this too-lush fantasia; to my relief, mine overlooked the car park, grimy with shoveled piles of snow. My fellow Tea Partiers were a gallimaufry of Christian fundamentalists, libertarians, small-business owners (particularly accountants), Ayn Rand fans in “I am John Galt” T-shirts, with a modest sprinkling of loudmouthed racial bigots. Most of those I met were gentle, middle-aged, middle-class people (the conference cost $549, plus hotel room and travel). They showed me photos of their children, and told me how they felt betrayed by both major parties. Too many Republicans, including former President George W. Bush, were RINOs, or Republicans in Name Only, they said; and too many Democrats were preoccupied with social and gender issues that held no interest for them. The Tea Partiers’ big concerns were taxes and debt. Spending one’s way out of a recession on borrowed money, per Keynes, would be insane for a family, so why would it work for a nation? Several platform speakers referred to the president as Barack Hussein Obama, putting a sinister stress on his middle name and demanding to see his long-form birth certificate, which, they swore, would reveal he was born in Kenya. The audience was divided when “birther,” or “secret Muslim,” issues came up. Some applauded; others stared ahead glacially. Sarah Palin was the last-night keynote speaker, but her speech seemed wan. Although her entry was greeted with giddy ecstasy and shouts of “Run, Sarah, Run!” her exit was met with muted acclaim. She had been upstaged by Andrew Breitbart — a late replacement for Congresswoman Michele Bachmann, who’d canceled. Mr. Breitbart could switch his mien in an instant from detached academic observer to street-smart bully. He brought the convention to exuberant life, riffing from topic to topic: abusing the press, boasting of his role in publishing undercover videos that helped get Acorn, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, closed down. Mr. Breitbart told the Tea Party audience that whenever he went to Washington, D.C., acquaintances would ask, “You’re not really one of those people?” His reply: “You better bet your ass I am!” His canniest thrust was reserved for campus political correctness: Colleges, he said, try “to create the perception that the minority is the majority and the majority is not just the minority but a bad, racist, homophobic — all these buzzwords that they learned in their freshman orientation class at Wesleyan are used as weapons to try to destroy you and to intimidate you to not speak up and to speak your mind, and your days of doing this are over!” This struck a nerve, and Mr. Breitbart closed to a standing ovation. There would be no more intimidation from college kids; everyone would speak up and speak their minds. Mr. Breitbart died suddenly in 2012, at age 43, of heart failure. His friend Stephen K. Bannon, who had given Breitbart.com rent-free office space in Santa Monica, Calif., took over the business. Mr. Bannon is now Mr. Trump’s chief strategist. The president-elect has the blunt pugnacity of the Breitbartian style. Like his tweets, his policy statements have the brutal concision of jokes. On the state of the nation: “This country is going to hell.” On the Islamic State: “Bomb the [expletive] out of them.” On waterboarding: “I love it. I think it’s great.” On immigration: “Build the wall and make Mexico pay for it.” On Hillary Clinton: “Lock her up!” On climate change: “It’s a Chinese hoax.” His schoolyard nicknames for opponents have the same flavor: Little Marco, Lyin’ Ted, Low-Energy Jeb, Crooked Hillary, Crazy Bernie, Goofy Elizabeth Warren. The United States has had a long love affair with vernacular heroes. As Ernest Hemingway observed, “All modern American literature comes out of one book from Mark Twain called ‘Huckleberry Finn.’ ” From Huck, via Hemingway to J. D. Salinger’s Holden Caulfield and beyond, the vernacular narrator has unmasked the pretensions and hypocrisy of the society around him by his plain speaking. Thus Huck exposes the inverted morality of slavery with the phrase “All right, then, I’ll go to hell,” as he decides to rescue Jim from Phelps Farm. Just as Holden exposes the “phonies” of postwar New York. Mr. Trump’s vernacular may be an unholy tangle of lies, misapprehensions, disinformation and personal insults, but it exposed Mrs. Clinton’s campaign rhetoric as stilted and artificial. She spoke in the reasoning language of the high school classroom; he did locker-room trash talk. I once heard Jorge Luis Borges talk about how dictators relished cruel jokes as demonstrations of their power: Juan Perón sacked him as a municipal librarian in Buenos Aires only to appoint him a state inspector of chickens and rabbits in the city market. “You see?” Borges said. “He had a sense of humor.” Mr. Trump’s humor is like Perón’s. The reality show of cabinet appointments brimmed with examples: parading a complaisant Al Gore before the cameras only to name Scott Pruitt, a climate-change denier, to direct the Environmental Protection Agency; courting Mitt Romney, including at a televised dinner à deux at the Tower, then choosing Rex W. Tillerson, C.E.O. of Exxon Mobil and friend of Vladimir V. Putin, to be secretary of state. Mr. Trump has great gifts in the art of vengeance and humiliation. It is a ribald form of wit that can make voters laugh with the scornful jeer that, for a moment, irons out the inequalities between the 1 percent and the rest of the nation. Andrew Breitbart had it; Sarah Palin almost did. Mr. Trump has it in spades.