On Tuesday, Donald J. Trump said he wanted Congress to repeal the Affordable Care Act right away and replace it with a new plan “very shortly thereafter.” But before they abandon all the work that has gone into the health care law since 2010, President-elect Trump and Republicans in Congress owe Americans a detailed explanation of how they plan to replace it. They should not repeal the law until they have submitted their replacement proposal for analysis by nonpartisan authorities like the Congressional Budget Office and the Tax Policy Center to determine how it will affect health insurance coverage, state and federal finances and individual tax burdens. Vague promises are not enough when we are considering enormous changes in this country’s $3 trillion medical economy. Here are seven important questions that Congress must answer about its replacement plan before repealing the Affordable Care Act:   1. How many millions of Americans will lose coverage? The A.C.A. expanded Medicaid coverage to around 12 million people in 31 states and the District of Columbia, and provided financial assistance for moderate-income Americans to buy insurance. These measures have reduced the percentage of Americans who are uninsured to the lowest levels in history. Proposals by Tom Price, Mr. Trump’s choice to run Health and Human Services, and by the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, would repeal the expansion of Medicaid and replace the A.C.A.’s income-based subsidies with less generous tax credits. Another plan from the House Republican Study Committee would offer deductions. We particularly need to know how this would affect low-income Americans, to whom tax deductions are nearly worthless, and who would generally not be able to afford coverage under these plans.  2. Will people over 55 pay higher health premiums for the same coverage? Under the health care law, premiums for older people cannot be more than three times as much as premiums for younger people. But the Ryan plan would let insurers charge older people five times as much. This change, combined with smaller tax credits or deductions that would not compensate for the increased cost, would significantly increase health care costs for many older Americans.  3. Will the new plan let insurers charge women higher premiums than men while offering them less coverage? Before the A.C.A. banned gender-based premiums, insurers in many states charged women more than men of the same age — some as much as 50 percent more. The A.C.A. also required all insurers to cover preventive health services without co-payments; for women, this includes birth control, Pap smears, mammograms and a host of other crucial services. Maternity care is fully covered as well. Republican replacement plans offer no such protection. And many Republicans want to defund Planned Parenthood, too, which would deprive women not just of coverage but also of care.  4. What other services are likely to be cut? Before the A.C.A., about a third of individual insurance market enrollees lacked coverage for the treatment of addiction, and nearly 20 percent lacked mental health coverage. One recent Republican proposal would require coverage only for hospital, physician and emergency care services. Will insurers be allowed to exclude any other services that they choose not to cover?  5. Will the new plan let insurers reinstate annual or lifetime limits on coverage? If so, how would the government ensure that individuals with life-altering illnesses and injuries received care without falling into financial ruin? Before the A.C.A., more than 50 percent of workplace insurance plans had lifetime limits, often in the range of $1 million to $2 million. That sounds like a lot — unless  you are a 42-year-old man with leukemia. And “mini-med” policies often imposed annual limits of a few thousand dollars.  6. What will happen to the more than 130 million Americans with pre-existing conditions? Among the most important — and popular — provisions of the A.C.A. are its requirements that insurers cover and not charge higher premiums to people who have pre-existing conditions like cancer. Some replacement plans propose segregating these people in high-risk pools. Before the A.C.A., two-thirds of states had such pools, which offered health plans with high premiums and deductibles and annual and lifetime caps. The pools never received enough support from the states to respond to the needs of high-cost individuals, and still covered only a tiny fraction of people with pre-existing conditions. Other plans would protect individuals with pre-existing conditions from discrimination only if they maintained insurance coverage without any breaks. But this is not easy because of job loss and transient hardships. An estimated 44 million Americans experienced a gap in coverage of at least one month in 2013 or 2014.  7. Finally, how much more will those with costly illnesses or injuries have to pay in out-of-pocket costs? Critics of the A.C.A. often argue that the law has made health care unaffordable. But many Americans would pay much more without it. The A.C.A. capped out-of-pocket spending at $7,150 for individuals and $14,300 for families for 2017. Republican proposals appear to offer no protection from high deductibles and other cost-sharing.  This is a short list. One might ask many other important questions about changes to Medicare, Medicaid and insurance bought through employers. Before Congress leaps off the precipice of repeal, Americans have the right to ask, “Where will we land?”