IT shouldn’t be a big deal that I gave blood this week, but it is. To do it, I had to give up all forms of sex for a year. The reason: I’m gay. With what we know today about the disease, it’s a stupid reason. In 1985, in the early days of the AIDS crisis, the United States Food and Drug Administration recommended that men who had sex with other men be prohibited from donating blood indefinitely. This policy made sense at the time. In the decades since, the nation has made enormous progress against the virus. What was once a death sentence is now a treatable, chronic condition. And we can now detect what had been an elusive virus within seven to 28 days of infection, using nucleic acid testing. In 2015, the agency modified the lifetime ban and allowed men who had sex with men to donate blood if they had abstained from sex for one year. This revision followed several years of study after an advisory committee found the lifetime ban “suboptimal.” But this one-year blanket policy, which depends on the honesty of the would-be donor, still falls short by failing to consider a potential donor’s individual risk factors, an approach some other countries follow with success. As a result, this prohibition, which the American Public Health Association said “is not based in science but appears to be modeled after other countries’ choices and fears,” effectively forbids as many as two million potential donors to give blood, according to an analysis published in 2014 by the Williams Institute at the U.C.L.A. School of Law. This past summer, the F.D.A. began the process of reconsidering its one-year policy. One alternative it is exploring is based on an individual risk assessment, in which potential donors would be asked a series of questions to determine whether they engaged in behaviors that put them at a high risk for contracting the virus. This is a positive but by no means complete step. And it is unclear when the F.D.A. will reach a decision. As the agency put it when it introduced the one-year deferral, because the process was “data driven,” it “could not specify a time for when future policy changes might occur.” In the meantime, people like me who want to donate badly needed blood are barred from doing so, unless they take a yearlong vow of celibacy. Now, I’m not oblivious to facts; the textbooks show that H.I.V. is more prevalent among gay and bisexual men. However, they also tell us that heterosexuals who have unprotected sex with people who don’t know their status have a higher risk of contracting the virus than a gay man who uses protection with someone who knows his status.  Barring an entire group of people based on the gender of their sexual partner is no less outlandish than barring people based on where they live. In 2014, the most recent date for complete data, the national H.I.V. rate per 100,000 people was 12.6; however, in Washington, D.C., it was 74.3. Should the F.D.A. ban blood donations by residents of the nation’s capital? And what if the F.D.A. were to ban blood donations based on other characteristics, like a donor’s race? African-Americans “have the most severe burden of H.I.V.” of all racial and ethnic groups in the United States and accounted for 44 percent of the new diagnoses in 2014, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Should the F.D.A. “defer” African-Americans from donating blood unless they have been abstinent for 12 months? The answer to both questions is obvious: of course not. And the answer should be the same for men who have sex with men. The F.D.A. should adopt a modern blood donor deferral policy that is based on the risk of individual donors, as determined in interviews by people trained to make that determination. This approach is used successfully in Italy and Spain, among other nations. In Italy, donors are asked to refrain from giving blood if they have been involved in sexual activities that have a high risk of H.I.V. transmission. Spain asks donors if they have engaged in specific risky sexual behavior in the last six months. Merely being gay is not grounds for automatic deferral in those countries. In my work with the National Gay Blood Drive, I’ve heard directly from patients and their family members about their need for blood. After I was finally able to make my donation on Tuesday, a mother messaged me on Facebook, thanking me for giving her son “and kids like him the tools to fight.” You can’t help but well up when you hear that. All potential donors, regardless of race, age, creed or the gender of their sexual partners, should be questioned about any risky sexual behavior. Until this F.D.A. policy is rescinded and replaced by a more enlightened approach, people like me will be forbidden to donate blood. This decision should be based on the best individual assessment of a person’s risk and not driven by stigma and fear.