DURHAM, N.C. — At his confirmation hearing on Tuesday, Gen. John F. Kelly, who is President-elect Donald J. Trump’s pick to lead the Department of Homeland Security, threw cold water on his future boss’s plan to build a wall along the Mexican border. “A physical barrier in and of itself will not do the job,” he said, adding that the real problem is not illegal immigration, but the flow of drugs, gangs and possibly terrorists across the border. Instead, General Kelly, the former head of the Pentagon’s Southern Command, called for greater cooperation between law enforcement agencies in both countries. In fact, we already have a model for such cooperation — but it’s along our northern, not southern, border. The best example of this extraordinary cooperation is a bill President Obama quietly signed last month. It gives final American approval to an agreement that opens up numerous land and sea ports of entry in Canada to armed American customs agents, who will “preclear” travelers bound for the United States long before they get to the border. That gun-shy Canadians would allow pistol-packing, uniformed American officials to work with enhanced powers on Canadian soil protecting the United States demonstrates a key point that General Kelly clearly understands — the best way to secure our border is not to wall off our continental neighbors, as the president-elect has promised to do with Mexico, but to actively engage them. Our 5,525-mile boundary with Canada, the world’s longest between two countries, has long been a proving ground for innovative wall-free programs that bolster security while also facilitating legitimate trade and travel. Since 1952 American customs and immigration officials have been clearing United States-bound travelers at a growing list of Canadian airports. This “preclearance” was mainly seen as a way to relieve congestion at busy American air hubs, where serpentine lines at customs booths had become the norm. After the Sept. 11 attacks, however, policy makers saw another benefit to preclearance: stopping bad guys before they even reached our border, which contributes to the “layered-defense” General Kelly mentioned in his testimony. But American customs agents’ authority wasn’t as broad as the United States would have liked. Canadian officials would not allow the agents to carry their sidearms. Nor could they search or question travelers who decided at the last minute to withdraw from screening. And screening was used only with air travelers, a small portion of the 400,000 people who cross the Canadian border daily. As one former Customs and Border Protection official once described it, preclearance was “customs light.” The new agreement, which is reciprocal and awaits expected Canadian parliamentary approval, allows customs officials to carry weapons in Canada in places where their Canadian counterparts are also armed. It also allows American officials to grill travelers who don’t like the way their questioning is going before they withdraw from a preclearance area. And it applies to train stations, ferry terminals and cargo facilities in addition to airports. The guns issue in particular was a major concession by Canada, which strictly regulates firearms and looks askance at American gun culture. But preclearance is only the latest example of our border cooperation with Canada. A program called Shiprider, for example, allows Coast Guard personnel to ride on Canadian law enforcement vessels in the lakes and rivers that make up 40 percent of the border. Canadian police officers in turn ride on Coast Guard vessels. Smugglers and potential terrorists who used to evade capture by sailing across the maritime boundary can now be stopped because officers with arrest powers from both countries are aboard. Our southern border presents similar opportunities. One innovative example is a 2015 United States-Mexico agreement that permits customs agents to inspect cargo in each other’s country. In one pilot program, Customs and Border Protection agents posted in Tijuana, Mexico, scrutinized northbound trucks loaded with fresh produce. This enhanced border security because American agents could detect hazards like drugs or agricultural pests before they entered the United States. And by preclearing trucks away from the border, they relieved congestion at the crossings themselves. But as with Canada, getting to this preclearance agreement required a major concession by Mexico. Allowing armed American customs agents to work in Mexico was not considered a possibility when I was a diplomat there from 2004 to 2006. But to make this cargo preclearance deal work, the Mexican Congress swallowed its reservations and amended its firearms law to allow Customs and Border Protection agents to carry their weapons. As General Kelly, who will oversee our borders if confirmed, seems to believe, walling off the entire southern boundary at great cost sends a hostile message that could snuff out the very cooperation needed to make our borders truly secure. Innovative and road-tested alternatives clearly exist. The Trump administration should give them a hard look before laying its first brick.