I. Rattlesnakes The trails were unfamiliar — I barely knew what continent I was on — and fear was gnawing at me as I ran through the craggy, tree-lined trails of Tilden Regional Park. By mile four, my thoughts were filled with bears, snakes, danger. Are there even bears in Berkeley, Calif.? Four days earlier, my brother Jesse had been riding his bike home from these woods. At the intersection of Allston and Sacramento, an elderly driver failed to notice that the light had turned red. When I got the phone call, I was at home in Jerusalem, puttering around my kitchen. I remember slumping to the floor, the phone pressed against my face. Everything in my house looked drained of color. A few hours later, I boarded a flight to California. By the time I reached his hospital room, they’d removed the breathing tube, and Jesse was able to speak. “Hey, Mor,” he said. He had a bruise under his eye, a few scrapes on his shoulder, but his face was calm. “Hey, Jess,” I said, taking his hand, “I love you. You’re going to be O.K.” The doctors were less confident. Jesse had suffered a C6 spinal fracture, a sternum fracture, nerve damage in his leg and, despite wearing a bike helmet, a “diffuse axonal injury” — a rotational injury of the brain that can have devastating consequences. The next four days were a haze of hospital rooms, swapping shifts by Jesse’s bedside with his girlfriend, our parents and sister, and my wife. His condition stabilized, yet Jesse grew more agitated and confused; the morphine-induced tranquillity of the first days gave way to drug- and brain-injury-induced hallucinations. He had no idea what had happened, and was convinced he was in jail or under Nazi occupation. One afternoon, he soberly informed me that he had been hospitalized after “getting into a fistfight with Donald Trump Jr.” He pulled his IV out, tried to rip his neck brace off. They had to restrain him. As awful as it was to witness, the hospital staff said, the agitation was actually a sign of progress. By the weekend, I needed to get out; I went for a run. I started long-distance trail running in 2013, at a time when I was entangled in a web of depression and anxiety. By the time I ran my first 38-mile ultramarathon, eight months later, I was significantly less depressed and moderately less anxious. Running has been my medication and meditation ever since. As I ran through Tilden, though, all I felt was fear. At the top of a hill, I saw a runner, standing in place. He looked pale. “You O.K.?” I asked as I came up to him. “Yeah,” he said in a hushed tone, pointing. There, about 10 feet in front of us, a snake was writhing on the path. I stared, gulped and prepared to slowly backtrack. Then I realized it wasn’t a snake. It was two snakes, their sleek bodies wrapped around each other, rising and falling, mirroring each other in twisting S-shapes. “Rattlesnakes, I think,” the runner said. “And I think they’re mating.” I snapped a short video on my phone. Without that video, I’m not sure I’d trust the memory of what I saw. I watched for a few more seconds, turned, and ran back down the hill. II. Mountain Lion As the weeks passed, my brother began to show clearer signs of recovery. He was transferred to a rehab facility in Vallejo, Calif., where he gave impromptu lectures on space travel, the American prison system, the Symbionese Liberation Army and why Bob Dylan deserved the Nobel. Eventually, the delirium faded, and Jesse was able to walk, shakily, with help from the physical therapists. Still, he wasn’t sleeping well, and he was confused, frightened and hurting. His injury was still so severe that even the most optimistic doctors told us to expect months of rehabilitation. Would he make a full recovery? No one could tell us. I canceled my return flight to stay in California. A neurosurgeon we consulted told us: “Don’t think of this recovery as a marathon. Think of it as an ultramarathon.” That I understood: We would have to trust that we could do this, even when it felt as if we couldn’t. A few days later, I signed up for a 50K trail race on Mount Tamalpais. Training for it offered a structure that was a comfort amid the chaos of hospital rooms, sleepless nights and endless logistics. One Saturday, I woke up early and took off for an 18-mile run in Tilden. Twenty minutes in, I met an ultrarunner named Wes. We ran together for about 10 miles, talking easily. There is, I’ve found, an immediate intimacy with other long-distance runners. It may be something about moving forward together, staring out into the same jumble of trees or stretch of pavement. Or about being engaged in a common purpose that created an immediate channel of compassion when I explained about my brother’s situation. Or maybe it was about the shared silence that followed, the most comforting thing of all. We were running in one of those silences when I pointed up the trail to an area shrouded in mist. A slender, powerful silhouette was gliding past, carrying something in its mouth. It looked like a huge, muscular dog, yet it floated over the ground in a way that seemed uncanine. “What is that?” I asked. “A coyote?” “That’s a mountain lion. I can tell from the tail. Looks like it got a rabbit.” In seconds, it was gone, slinking off into the fog. Back at the hospital, I told Jesse about the run. “I’m pretty sure we saw a mountain lion, dude. It was nuts.” Jesse nodded slowly, and said, “Welcome to Vallejo.” All of us in the room burst out laughing. Vallejo, outside the rehab facility, was a flat suburban sprawl punctuated with Targets, Walmarts, Arby’s and Wendy’s. Jesse smiled, too. It was the first joke I remember him making since the accident. Even if it wasn’t clear he fully understood how he’d made a joke, it was clear he’d intended it. III. Coyote Pack Three weeks later, Jesse was released from the rehab center with a walker, a neck brace and very vague prognoses about what to expect from the process of healing from his brain injury. My Tamalpais race came — a grueling 6,800 feet of elevation gain packed into 30-some miles — and went. Although I ran it an hour and a half slower than the last 50K race I’d done, I was ecstatic just to finish. Jesse continued to improve, slowly, steadily, as though he himself was slogging up a mountain. Two and a half months after the accident, I booked a ticket home, knowing that he was going to be O.K. Right before I left, I went for one last run in Tilden. It was a cool, foggy morning. A mile in, I heard a strange sound from down in the valley, a high-pitched yipping. I stopped to listen. Perhaps a fox, I thought. Then I heard a rustle, and sensed that the animal was closer than I’d realized. I froze. There was a moment of thick silence. Then a growl and snarling bark that made the hair on my neck stand up. It did not sound like a fox. I turned to continue up the trail, and then froze again. In front of me, ears erect above a thin face, beady eyes trained on me, was a coyote. Something animal inside me clicked on. My nostrils flared and my muscles tensed. I charged up the hill toward the coyote, roaring as I ran. The startled animal darted off the path, and I sprinted onward. When I finally slowed to catch my breath, I heard them: a whole pack of coyotes, howling, barking, shrieking. As my feet pounded the earth, my mind flooded with images of the pack catching me, taking me down, their fangs ripping into the muscles of my legs and arms. I ran and I ran. Finally, the howling was a fading echo. I tried to laugh off my fear, but my hands were shaking, as I darted out onto Wildcat Canyon Drive, back to the city. My animal encounters were all real — I had the video, I had witnesses. But had I somehow invited these creatures to cross my path? That afternoon, I asked Jesse what he made of the coyotes. “Maybe, that the world is a dangerous place. And scary things happen,” he said. “And it’s good to keep doing the things you love, anyway.” One day — not yet, but soon — Jesse and I will go running together again.