Before I got cancer, I used to collect $2 bills. They were rare, and I thought that meant they were lucky, but rare and lucky are not the same thing. For most of my life, I associated low statistical averages with good fortune. I was one of the 20 percent of applicants admitted to my freshman class at Stanford in 1994. When I applied for my first job, as an English professor at a liberal arts college, they told me I beat 700 other candidates. And after my second novel was published, one of the hosts of the “Today” show, Hoda Kotb, unprompted by my publicist, recommended my book on the air to her millions of viewers. I estimated the odds of my experience being something like 0.0001 percent. With luck like that, I figured I should be playing the lottery. Soon I did win a certain kind of lottery, but the prize was something nobody wants. In the beginning of the spring semester in 2014, I began suffering from severe pain and fatigue, which I originally chalked up to overwork. I had an endoscopy. A few days later, my gastroenterologist called to tell me that my biopsies had tested positive for stomach cancer. The chance of getting this disease was approximately 0.9 percent. The typical stomach cancer patient was a nonwhite man in his 60s and 70s. I was an Asian man in his 30s. While I found no hard data on the odds of getting stomach cancer in your 30s, it was certainly a fraction of a fraction of that 0.9 percent. I immediately wanted to know my odds of survival. My oncologist wouldn’t say, leaving me to perform the rite of passage of looking up survival rates on the American Cancer Society website. That speaks to an intrinsic characteristic of cancer: It does not kill right away. Cancer is death by promissory note, and the spaces for “when” and even “if,” for those in earlier stages, are left blank. It might be fair to say that after I became sick, I stopped thinking of myself as a person and began to think of myself in terms of statistics. I asked my doctors for numbers all the time. How would my odds of survival increase with radiation? And with chemotherapy? And by getting care in an academic hospital? Did I get bonus points for being young? (No, it turned out.) I pored over charts from clinical studies, examining survival odds based on various treatments. My surgeon refused to predict my future and told me to ignore my survival odds, which were a low 9 percent. He pointed out a cognitive error that people make when looking at statistics. If you survive, he reminded me, you’ll survive 100 percent. No one survives 9 percent. No one is 9 percent dead. The numbers that matter are 0 and 100, dead or alive. To make an analogy to a commonly cited statistic, 50 percent of marriages end in divorce. There’s a part of the brain that therefore mistakenly believes all marriages experience 50 percent worth of divorce, making that number seem relevant to all couples, when it isn’t. For the happy couples, it is irrelevant. That meant that if I survived, it wouldn’t matter, looking back, whether I’d beaten chances of 9 or 19 or 90 percent. After I finished my treatments, months passed and my cancer did not return. According to my doctors, the longer I went without a recurrence, the less likely I was to have one. That meant my odds of survival were not a static 9 percent, as I’d thought, but actually increased over time. By November 2015, I had gone 19 months with no evidence of the disease, and based on the calculations of a physicist friend of mine, my odds of survival were 70 percent. The chances were high — very high — that I would beat my cancer for good. Around Christmas of that year, however, I began to have trouble eating. One night, shortly after a small meal, I started to feel the sensation of being repeatedly stabbed in the belly with a knife. I had to go to the emergency room, for the first of several hospital stays. Soon, I was no longer able to eat solid foods, only protein shakes, and after a while I couldn’t even drink those anymore. I was living on 700 calories a day, and at 5 feet 10, I saw my weight drop to 105 pounds. Walking took enormous effort, and my starvation coincided with a seemingly never-ending battery of CT scans, ultrasounds, X-rays, procedures and biopsies, until my cancer’s return was confirmed. It had not returned when my chance of recurrence was high but when it finally became low. So the fact that my outlook had become rosy meant nothing in the end. My surgeon had been right to say that the numbers weren’t predictive — neither when they were against me nor, unfortunately, when they were in my favor. In retrospect, I’d used survival rates not as a piece of information, but as a coping mechanism. I’d used them to measure the amount of hope I could give rope to. They’d allowed for my otherwise unjustifiable optimism to feel rooted in reality. Deep down, every cancer patient wants to believe he is going to make it, and the survival rate is the blunt, messy tool we use to convince ourselves. However, cancer does not respect the rational nature of numbers. It operates within its own cruel logic. Nowhere is this truer than in the way cancer is treated today. Stage 4 cancer used to be pretty much a death sentence to all patients; the rise of immunotherapy has turned the battle against the disease into a wheel of fortune in which some people continue to die while others live longer and a few achieve seemingly miraculous long-term remission. In one trial, patients with advanced melanoma who received immunotherapy had a response rate of about 50 percent to 60 percent. But that’s not true for most patients with solid tumors. In a recent clinic trial for the drug Opdivo, for instance, only 14 percent of stomach cancer participants benefited. My 10-year-old niece recently saw one of the $2 bills that I carry in my wallet. She’d never seen one before, and asked me if she could have it. I hesitated, wondering if I was going to have to either dispense with some good luck, or saddle her with the opposite. But the hesitation passed, and I handed her the note.