Inauguration Day for Barack Obama in 2009 was clear, cold and crisp. More than a million people had come to Washington, and the Mall was alive with a sense of hope for the country’s future. I saw it from my seat on the west front of the Capitol. I felt the historic sense of the day and the optimism it promised as we in Congress went to work that January. Shortly before that Inauguration Day, President-elect Obama came to the Capitol to meet with the Republican and Democratic leaders to discuss how we could work together to get the economy moving again. In that meeting, Mr. Obama asked John A. Boehner, then the House minority leader, and me to provide his team with our thoughts on how to put people back to work after the severe financial crisis of 2008. Given that my party had fought hard to elect someone else to the presidency, I was struck by this gesture and hopeful that it meant we could work together. John and I established a working group on the recovery. We knew many of the traditional Republican policies had been consistently rejected by the Democrats, so we aimed to formulate policies that both sides could embrace. The centerpiece of our plan was a 20 percent reduction in taxes for small businesses. We believed that small businesses were going to be the engine that powered America out of the economic downturn. We didn’t know how the White House would receive our plan, but we knew the president was wildly popular and could use the bully pulpit against us. News outlets, along with the Democrats, labeled us the “Party of No.” But that didn’t reflect the reality. Our goal was to offer a viable alternative to every major piece of legislation the Democratic majority put forward. We wondered if the president would embrace our efforts to bridge the policy divide, and if he did, what that might mean for Republicans in Washington. A few weeks later, John and I, along with the other congressional leaders, met with President Obama at the White House to discuss our plan as well as his proposed stimulus bill. Bringing along a one-page outline of our working group’s recommendations, I rather brazenly asked the president if I could hand it out at the meeting. The president agreed, and after glancing at it, he said to me, “Eric, I don’t see anything crazy in here.” I was hopeful. But later in the meeting, when I mentioned that a stimulus package built around government spending would be too much like “old Washington,” the president’s tone changed. He said: “Elections have consequences, and at the end of the day, I won. So I think on that one I trump you.” It wasn’t long afterward that we learned that Nancy Pelosi, the speaker of the House, and Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, were well on their way to having a final stimulus package drafted, and they weren’t really interested in any of our ideas. And so it went with the year’s next significant policy debate: health care reform. For a long time, Republicans had been working on proposals to utilize high-risk pools to help patients with pre-existing conditions, to lower overall costs, and to expand coverage in the small employer market — policies that were compatible with the president’s public goals. Early in the legislative process, a senior member of the Obama administration came to see me. Ostensibly it was to share ideas and seek a bipartisan way forward on health care reform. The official presented the administration’s preferred policy approach — including mandates, and the “public option,” in which government would compete with private insurance plans. I insisted that none of this would go over well with the Republican members, and as the whip I knew that the public option was a nonstarter. Nonetheless, I was told the president and his team were intent on doing it their way. The attitude wasn’t much different in public. In February 2010, the president invited the bipartisan congressional leadership to Blair House for a discussion surrounding the health care bill that the Senate had passed. Unlike our meeting on the economy a year earlier, this one was to be televised. It was obvious that the session was more about creating public pressure on Republicans than soliciting our ideas. In November 2010, Democrats suffered defeat at the ballot box, as Republicans retook the majority in the House. As I look back on that first meeting, and what transpired after, I see an opportunity lost. President Obama started with an outstretched hand, but pulled it back with a policy lurch leftward to a place we could not go. Next week, Donald J. Trump will assume office as the 45th president of the United States. He will govern with Republican majorities in the House and Senate. Democratic leaders must decide whether they will offer solutions that they hope won’t be rejected out of hand by Republicans, or whether they want to oppose everything that comes down the pike. If they choose the former, President Trump will have to decide whether to work to include them in the governing process. It is too early to say what choices each side will make, but we know what’s in store for our country if the Democrats opt for pure obstruction or if Mr. Trump and Republicans exclude the minority from policy decisions. We’ll get four years of hyper-partisanship and further erosion of public confidence in our governing institutions. As Americans witness the swearing in of a new president this week, it’s another reminder that our founding fathers wanted elections to have consequences, but they also created a system that requires factions to work together even after a decisive election. It is my hope that the new president and leaders in Congress live up to our founders’ expectations.