Here’s a story: I was driving home from work and a car cut me off. The guy was driving really slowly, and I wound up following him for half a mile. As it stands, it’s not a very interesting story. But suppose we add another line: So I laid on my horn the whole time. Or perhaps a different line: That’s why I’m late. Each of those two lines add a dimension to the story that wasn’t there before. Now, instead of just a story about me, we have a story about how I like to see myself, or perhaps how I like myself to be seen. Either way, I am expressing what might loosely be called a “value.” This value is not necessarily a moral value, but a way of being that I want to see myself as living, a way of being that I consider valuable for myself and seek to associate myself with. In the first case, I express something like, “I am not a person to be messed with.” In the second it is something like, “I am not a tardy person.” Many of our stories about ourselves do this. We tell stories that make us seem adventurous, or funny, or strong. We tell stories that make our lives seem interesting. And we tell these stories not only to others, but also to ourselves. The audience for these stories, of course, affect the stories we tell. If we’re trying to impress a date, we might tell a story that makes us seem interesting or witty or caring, whereas if we’re trying to justify a dubious act to someone who is judging us (or perhaps ourselves), we might tell a story that makes us out to be without other recourse in the situation. In the latter case, what we are doing is dissociating ourselves from a value we might be associated with and thus implicitly associated ourselves with a different one. Not all our stories about ourselves express values like these. However, many — perhaps most — of them do. This is so even where a story might seem to express a disvalue. Think, for instance, of people whose stories about themselves are often about things not working out for them. Whatever they try, they fail; the world conspires against them. These stories express values as well, values that often stem from resentment or even despair. They buttress a view of the world that justifies their being who they are and not someone more accomplished or happy or social. This is not to say that people who tell stories like this are necessarily wrong about their history. There are certainly people whose circumstances do conspire against them. We have seen this recently in the egregious incidents of hate toward traditionally marginalized groups. But when people come to identify themselves with stories about their difficulties, then they are not merely living through difficulties but, in some cases understandably, expressing values about their lives, ways of living that they identify with. This last point leads to a further one. Some of the values we express are not values we would necessarily want to acknowledge. If someone calls attention to the fact that I am always making myself out to be a victim, I might well deny it. “No, it’s not me, it’s the circumstances. Everything happened just as I told you.” There are ways of being that we might value but not be willing to admit, even to ourselves, that we value. This may seem paradoxical. How could we value something and yet not admit to ourselves that we value it? However, we know — at least in the abstract — that we do deceive ourselves about certain aspects of who we are and what we are doing. Such self-deception involves, among other things, the expression of values that we are unwilling to acknowledge. When I laid on my horn while following the slow driver — which I confess to you here I did — then I expressed a value that I would really not want to be associated with, and would likely not have admitted to at the time. (Now I try to do better, but as a person raised in New York, I have difficulty. And you will certainly have noticed that even that admission expresses a value associated with being someone from New York.) If we reflect on the stories we tell about ourselves, both to others and to ourselves, we may well find out things about who we are that complicate the view we would prefer to be identified with. Why might this matter? Here is one reason. The presidential election has displayed in stark terms a phenomenon that many have commented on in recent years. With the proliferation of various cable news channels, the internet, niche marketing, clustering in communities of like-minded people, most of us live in echo chambers that reflect the righteousness of our lives back to us. We are reinforced to think of ourselves as embodying the right values, as living in ways that are at least justified, if not superior. Reflecting on the stories we tell about ourselves might reveal to us other aspects of who we are and what we value, aspects that would complicate the simple picture provided by our echo chamber. And that complication, in turn, could lead us to another revelation: that those who live outside our echo chamber might also be more complicated than we have imagined. While the values we take them to be expressing might be mistaken — or even abhorrent — to us, there are perhaps other aspects to their lives as well, other values those lives express, values that would become manifest to us if we listened to some of the stories they tell about themselves. If we are more complicated than we like to think, perhaps others are also more complicated than we would like to think. (And also more complicated than they would like to think.) None of this is meant to argue for some sort of relativism of values or that everyone is equally justified in the choices they make. The displays of racism, sexism and xenophobia that this presidential election has brought us — often in the form of stories that express values associated with macho individualism — are to be rejected wholesale. However, in this age of polarization, where it is easy to dismiss others with a righteous wave of our hand, we could perhaps do worse than to reflect on the complications that each of us lives, complications that are often on display in the stories we tell about ourselves.