This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. One of President Obama’s biggest failings, it often seems, is the fate of the Democratic Party on his watch. As he leaves office, Republicans control the House, the Senate and about two of every three state legislatures and governorships. But Ronald Brownstein has written a piece in The Atlantic with a smart and fresh perspective. The Democrats’ losses under Obama have not been unusual, he explains. A party that controls the White House for two terms typically loses political power elsewhere. The Democrats’ recent losses have been right around the post-World War II average. “Most analyses overstate the Democrats’ down-ballot losses under Obama because they only start counting after he took office in 2009,” Brownstein writes. “That denies him credit for the candidates he helped elect during his resounding first win in 2008.” He adds: “As I’ve written before, the fairest way to measure a president’s impact on his party is to compare its electoral position just before he first appeared on the ballot with its position just after the election to succeed him. That gives the president responsibility for any other officials initially swept in with him, the outcomes during his tenure, and the shadow he casts over the election to replace him.” As you can see, I’ve created a few charts here with Brownstein’s data that put the losses under Obama into perspective. The basic message is that the Obama-era losses have been smaller than under most postwar presidents. The big exception is Ronald Reagan; Republicans thrived under him. That exception highlights the fairest criticism of Obama on this score. While he did not preside over atypical losses, he also did not figure out how to increase the popularity of his party — in the way that his 2008 campaign suggested might be possible. Instead, Democrats are on the defensive in much of the country, and it falls to Obama’s Democratic successors to change the situation. Being out of power doesn’t have many benefits, but it should at least allow Democrats to start plotting a comeback with a good chance of success.