Arthur Brooks: Welcome back to the conversation, Gail. The hiatus between the election and the inauguration was supposed to be kind of boring, wasn’t it? I mean, nothing ever happens during presidential transitions unless you’re really into the ins and outs of appointing 5,000 government officials. Maybe I shouldn’t have quit that Fantasy Bureaucracy league. I guess we shouldn’t be surprised that this time it was different. Conspiracy theories exploded, the president-elect live-tweeted his feelings about his critics — it’s like a Pundits Full Employment Act was passed. Where to start? Gail Collins: It’s Inauguration Week, Arthur. I have to admit I often plunge into avoidance, but we ought to talk about it. Arthur: People are clamoring for our thoughts. At least for yours. Gail: Actually, my people have assumed fetal positions under their beds for the duration. But let’s move forward. If you were writing Trump’s speech, what would you say? Arthur: He should talk about unity between Americans, whether they are cheering or fetal. Obviously, the incredible bitterness of the election and the ongoing controversies during the transition have left the country extremely divided. This is a precarious way to start a new presidency, so Mr. Trump should kick it off by talking about how he will be a president for every American. For example: “To all the Americans who voted for me, I say ‘Thank you — I will strive to live up to your expectations.’ To those who opposed me I say, ‘I will work every day to earn your trust and support.’ Starting today, I will be the president for all Americans, whether you voted for me or not.” Obviously this will have to be more than rhetoric, but it would be a seriously good start. Do you agree? Gail: Well sure. Even I don’t expect to see President Trump start off with, “So I won, and you losers can like it or lump it.” Ideally I’d want to hear him say something like: “I’m aware that this election was unusual, and that the popular vote went for my opponent. My victory gave me a mandate, but it was a mandate to govern from the center.” Not really expecting this to happen. Arthur: He’s more likely to come to the inauguration dressed as a leprechaun and sing his oath of office in falsetto. Gail: Which would be … wow. Arthur: And speaking of inauguration entertainment, everyone seems to be talking about the fact that so-called A-list celebrities are boycotting it. Which I’m sure is a real shocker for Trump, who must have been really counting on Barbra Streisand singing the national anthem. Sad! If I were the Trump team I would use this is as an opportunity to hold a celebrity-free inauguration, and rely on the military bands (which are truly outstanding) for music. Gail: The star-deprived inauguration is a meaningless moment of some significance. Trump came to power as a celebrity. The fact that his peers are boycotting his big day does suggest that the role in which he presented himself was phony. I know it sounds trivial, but in this particular case, the fact that Donald Trump can’t get a celebrity more important than Jon Voight means something. Arthur: Well, it’s hardly surprising that Trump is anathema to liberal Hollywood, which some would consider a mark in his favor. Although I take your point about the irony that the host of Celebrity Apprentice is having trouble attracting celebrities. Gail: And of course, on a much more serious level, the inauguration is going on without Representative John Lewis, who’s boycotting. The fight between Lewis and Trump is interesting, in a tragic sort of way. In another world we could be having a debate about whether it was a good idea for the congressman to question the legitimacy of Trump’s election. Arthur: The argument that Trump is uniquely awful is not strengthened by the fact that Congressman Lewis apparently made the same decision in 2001, skipping George W. Bush’s inauguration to signal that he wasn’t a legitimate president either. Gail: But then Trump came back, instantly, with a tweet that insulted a great civil rights icon. Representative Lewis will certainly survive, but the whole flap once again raised the question of whether this president-elect knows how to comport himself when he’s in a high-level public disagreement. Tell me this whole thing didn’t make you even more frightened of the administration that’s to come. Arthur: Frankly, the whole thing makes me more depressed about politics on both sides. So let’s move on to policy! One thing we know is that the first 100 days of an administration are always the most critical. If there’s any political momentum and good will, that’s when it’s highest. So Trump has to come out of the gate fast. What do you expect to see? Gail: If that’s what he expects, soon he’ll be tweeting insults at the gate. The Republicans might repeal Obamacare, but they’re sure as heck not going to replace it fast. His party doesn’t really agree with him on infrastructure spending or trade. I predict he’ll do what we almost always see presidents from his party do: take the easy route and just cut taxes. Big tax cuts for the wealthy, tiny tax cuts for the middle class, zip for the poor. And of course no way to make up the lost revenue. Arthur: The biggest thing he will do in the first days is almost certainly canceling many of Obama’s executive orders. I wouldn’t be surprised to see 100 of these go down in the first three weeks. This will have immediate impact on regulations, which most conservatives will like and liberals will hate. Gail: Agreed. And if he knocks off Obama’s very modest and sane clarification of the background check rules on gun sales, it’ll be a very quick flag that he’s going to make no effort whatsoever to embrace the rational middle. Arthur: Well, perhaps not the rational middle of Manhattan. It really all depends on your definition of rational middle. Tax reform is the next huge area where we’ll see fast action, I predict. That means lower rates on both the individual and corporate side, and some simplification from fewer tax brackets and deductions. This is something that Paul Ryan and Kevin Brady (the House Ways and Means chairman) have been working on for a long time. Gail: I know how much you like Paul Ryan but — yech. Arthur: The so-called border-adjustment tax will be in that package, which is creating some controversy right now. Gail: It’s a great idea if you love inflation. Arthur: The effects are pretty complicated, but my colleague Alan Viard gives a good explanation of the policy. People who read this can impress their inauguration-night dates by casually explaining the border adjustment tax as the waiter takes away the appetizer plates. Obamacare repeal is definitely coming, although not necessarily as soon as people think because it is so complicated. The original bill was an absolute labyrinth, so unwinding it without chaos will be equally complex. Republicans have the contours of a replacement package, but not 2,500 pages worth. Finally, I expect some policies on border enforcement. Will this be the beginning of the wall? Gail: Really looking forward to that wall. I predict about 100 feet of it. Arthur: 100 feet high or 100 feet long? Gail: Both. Daredevils will walk across the top of it. Artists will paint it. Both countries will come to love their Little Big Wall, which Trump will keep promising to finish. But Arthur, to get back to what we were talking about at the beginning — what do you tell the people who have been suicidal since election night? I know most of your colleagues are conservative but I’ll bet there are still some who are quaking. Arthur: I have plenty of liberal friends, too, so I’ve seen a lot of people out on ledges, figuratively speaking, since Nov. 8. And as a liberal under Reagan and a conservative under Obama, I’ve become a personal expert at not liking the outcome of elections. As the great sage Mick Jagger reminds us, “You can’t always get what you want.” Gail: But this is not a time when we will get what we need. Arthur: My advice is pretty simple: Pay less attention to national politics. You and I have discussed the idea that people get too wrapped up in national issues and don’t even know what’s going on around them. There’s all kinds of evidence out there that people can improve their lives by thinking small — by paying attention to someone or something you can actually affect. My guess is that the world will keep going around even if you are less attentive to the goings-on in Washington. What’s your advice? Gail: Pick a trauma. You can’t go through the day obsessing about 40 different terrible things Donald Trump might do. It’s true there are 40 terrible things he might do. Maybe 400. But pick one. Maybe climate change. Or guns. Or public schools. Wherever your heart lies. Then really get in there and fight. You can be a warrior instead of a victim. Arthur: Be a little more specific — how should they fight? Gail: Well, for one thing, you can send money to your favorite battling group. Arthur: I recommend your favorite think tank. But I say that in a totally non-self-interested way. What else? Gail: You can run for office. But preferably, go for one of the steps in between. Make a list of 10 possible things you could do and pick one or two. The very fact that you’re engaged will improve your outlook. If you’re volunteering at Planned Parenthood or picketing the congressman who’s voting against Obamacare you’ll feel more empowered even if the crisis of the day is about North Korea. Arthur: Seems to me that we’re offering people two diametrically opposed options — pay less attention to politics or get more involved in politics. With luck, a couple of psychologists will write into the comment section to say which strategy is superior. Or maybe the right strategy combines our proposals: Pay less attention to national politics but get more involved in local affairs. One thing is for sure, though: No matter where we stand on this new president, we’re all wishing the best for our country in the coming years. That doesn’t mean we’re going to agree, but it does remind us that, unlike in so many other countries, we have something very important in common. Gail: Arthur, having you around will always improve my mood. See you on the picket line. Arthur: If we’re on opposite sides of it, we can wave hello!