The president-elect’s pick to run the Environmental Protection Agency is the antithesis of what the nation should expect in the next administrator of the agency responsible for protecting human health and the environment. Attorney General Scott Pruitt of Oklahoma has built his career suing the agency he would oversee to roll back its protection of the nation’s air and water, and challenging the very idea of federal action to control pollution. At the same time, while Mr. Pruitt preaches the gospel of states’ rights, his record suggests he has been far from aggressive in enforcing environmental laws in his own state. Given his anti-regulatory mind-set, skepticism about global warming and support from the industries he would regulate, the Senate, which is set to begin to consider his nomination on Wednesday, should reject him. His tenure in Oklahoma is instructive. Mr. Pruitt disbanded the environmental protection unit in the attorney general’s office and created a “federalism unit” to litigate against “overreach by the federal government.” Much of that overreach, in Mr. Pruitt’s view, was by the E.P.A. A spokesman for Mr. Pruitt told The New York Times recently that environmental “bad actors” were still being held accountable by his office. But the paper noted that many of the actions cited by his office were initiated by his predecessor. And The Times reported that Mark Derichsweiler, a state environmental official who oversaw a major water pollution case, retired in 2015 because, in his own words, he was frustrated with Mr. Pruitt’s approach of standing up for business “at the expense of people who have to drink the water or breathe the air.” Whatever Mr. Pruitt has done to actually protect the environment, he certainly hasn’t bragged about it. During his six-year tenure, his office issued more than 700 news releases announcing enforcement actions, speeches and public appearances, and challenges to federal regulations. My organization could not find any describing actions by Mr. Pruitt to enforce environmental laws or penalize polluters. By contrast, more than 50 of those news releases promoted his efforts to sue the E.P.A. and challenge its authority. Among the examples: “Pruitt to Testify Before Congress on E.P.A. Abuses,” “Pruitt and Republican Governors Association Challenge Destructive Regulations on Hydraulic Fracturing,” “Pruitt to Appeal E.P.A. Decision on Regional Haze Rule.” His supporters likewise have found little to point to. In defense of Mr. Pruitt, a website called Confirm Scott Pruitt for E.P.A. Administrator, paid for by the conservative research group America Rising Squared, proclaims: “Fact: As attorney general, Pruitt enforced Oklahoma’s environmental laws to protect children and families.” But the website’s only example of an enforcement action is a lawsuit against two oil companies for double-billing taxpayers and insurance companies for the cost of cleaning up fuel leaks from gas station storage tanks. While commendable, this action is not really environmental enforcement, which is about stopping pollution and making polluters pay out of their own pockets for the harm they cause. Although Mr. Pruitt talks about allowing states to take care of their own affairs, he ventured far from Oklahoma when he joined 20 other state attorneys general in filing a legal brief supporting a lawsuit by the American Farm Bureau Federation, an industry lobbying group, to block an agreement between six states, the District of Columbia and the E.P.A. to clean up the Chesapeake Bay. The Farm Bureau lost. Earthquakes were once rare in Oklahoma, with only one to three minor quakes a year before 2009. But the state now experiences hundreds per year, and averages as many as three quakes every day. State geologists have concluded that the majority of these earthquakes are linked to the injection of wastewater into the ground by oil and gas operations and other industries. Mr. Pruitt could not have solved this problem by himself. But critics say that he did little, if anything, to try to help, though the state’s oil and gas regulators recently issued new guidelines to address the problem. The oil and gas industries have contributed more than $300,000 to his campaigns. Among his supporters is Harold Hamm, the billionaire chief executive of one of the largest oil and gas companies in Oklahoma, Continental Resources. Mr. Hamm was the honorary chairman of Mr. Pruitt’s 2014 election campaign and was an energy adviser to Mr. Trump during the campaign. In 2014, The New York Times reported that Mr. Pruitt’s staff took a letter written by lawyers for the Oklahoma-based oil and gas company Devon Energy opposing E.P.A. regulations, copied it almost word for word onto state government stationery, and sent it to the agency as the official position of the Oklahoma Attorney General’s Office. “Outstanding!” wrote an executive for Devon, praising Mr. Pruitt’s advocacy on behalf of the company, according to The Times. Yes, Mr. Pruitt would be an outstanding E.P.A. administrator for polluters. But not for the rest of us. He is eager to see “regulatory rollback” at the agency he would lead. Lawmakers should instead send him back to the oil fields of Oklahoma.