The 2016 election has left the Republican Party in its most commanding position since the 1920s, with control of the White House and Congress and a majority of statehouses and governorships. Yet, for all that success, the conservative movement is on its heels, and even the meaning of conservatism is uncertain. Donald J. Trump campaigned as a populist rather than as a conservative, and won in the face of hostility from the conservative movement and Republican leadership. For all his faults, Mr. Trump recognized that the Republican path to the presidency was incompatible with many conservative shibboleths. As the new leader of his party, Mr. Trump has the opportunity to change its ideological orientation. He should seize it. If Mr. Trump makes peace with mainstream conservatives and defers to the likes of the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, by backing upper-class tax cuts, economic deregulation and reduced entitlement spending, he will be a failed president, and the energized voters who sent him to the White House will feel justifiably betrayed. During the campaign, Mr. Trump threw out the traditional conservative playbook. He appealed directly to the demographic that, in the mid-1970s, the sociologist Donald Warren called “Middle American Radicals.” These voters are not persuaded by tropes about limited government, but they have little interest in the Democratic Party’s cosmopolitan egalitarianism. They identify with neither Wall Street nor Occupy Wall Street. They are frightened by the prospect of privatized Social Security, but roll their eyes at the far left. They are not against government; they want a government that works for their specific interests. Yet the Republican Congress appears ready to disregard the voting bloc that has handed it power. Instead of secure Medicare and building projects, Mr. Trump’s supporters may end up with fewer banking regulations — which they never cared about. If Republicans push for a traditional conservative agenda, and Mr. Trump acquiesces, many of the Middle American Radicals will not turn out for them in 2018 or 2020. This group has made political waves before, filling the ranks of Richard Nixon’s “silent majority” and serving as Ross Perot’s base in 1992 and Pat Buchanan’s during his failed presidential campaigns in ’92 and ’96. Since that time, and especially since 2008, both parties ignored the Middle American Radicals, and it showed in their declining turnout rates. Mr. Trump brought them back into the Republican coalition without suffering significant losses among ideological conservatives. He did not even underperform compared to recent Republican nominees among minority voters. The conservative movement — the constellation of institutions, journalists, intellectuals and politicians who stand for limited government, traditional family values and a strong national defense — has dominated the Republican Party for a generation. But as Mr. Trump’s rise suggests, mainstream conservatism is a failed movement that has little to offer 21st-century America. The Republican Party’s electoral successes are despite, not because of, recent actual policy accomplishments. Conservative politicians have achieved shockingly little over the last two decades. Welfare reform, signed by President Bill Clinton, was the last significant conservative policy victory. George W. Bush gave America body bags, ballooning deficits and a housing crash. The Tea Party accomplished nothing but minor obstruction. On most social issues, conservatives lost in the court of public opinion — as with gay marriage — even before losing in the Supreme Court. The United States is more secular than ever. The conservative movement’s one great success over the last six decades was keeping other varieties of right-wing thought from entering mainstream discourse, thereby establishing itself as the only alternative to egalitarian liberalism. In many cases, the country was better off because it did so. The list of vanquished or marginalized right-wing opponents includes, for example, the John Birch Society, whose leader Robert Welch was seen by conservatives as a paranoid lunatic. Conservatives refused to associate with Ayn Rand and her anti-Christian Objectivist movement. They eventually broke ties with the isolationist paleoconservatives. They actively worked against David Duke during his campaigns. The conservative movement tried to sideline Mr. Trump as well, but for the first time, failed, thanks in part to the growing irrelevance of traditional conservative media like National Review. A small number of elites are no longer able to define the boundaries of acceptable political opinion or keep other ideological tendencies out of view. Because of social media and the proliferation of right-wing websites, any ideas can be found by interested readers. Populist and conspiracist websites like Breitbart and Newsmax have larger audiences than many of the leading journals of erudite conservative commentary, because that is what ordinary Republicans want to see. Mr. Trump defeated the intellectual conservative movement by ignoring it. In recent weeks, there have been signs that Mr. Trump will make peace with the conservative movement; his stated agenda includes many policies that conservatives have long demanded. Some of Mr. Trump’s cabinet picks (such as Representative Mick Mulvaney, Republican of South Carolina, his choice for budget director) suggest he will govern as a Tea Party Republican, rather than reach for a transformative presidency. But there is no good reason for Mr. Trump to capitulate to conservatives. If voters had wanted Ted Cruz’s agenda, they would have voted for Ted Cruz. For better or for worse, Mr. Trump’s victory was propelled by populist civic nationalism. His win was not a mandate for slashing Medicare, cutting taxes on the wealthy, an aggressive, interventionist foreign policy or most of the other items on the traditional conservative to-do list. The Republicans must now decide what it means to be a conservative party. Traditional conservatism failed and will continue to fail, given the electorate’s policy preferences. Mr. Trump won over the party’s voting base precisely because he often disregarded traditional conservatives. Going forward, he should embrace the opportunity to reinvigorate the party by fashioning his own brand of populist politics. Republican leaders with an interest in electoral success will support him in this endeavor, rather than try to shackle him to the outdated conservative movement.