The Women’s March on Washington, which is expected to bring hundreds of thousands of participants to the capital on Saturday, was intended to demonstrate opposition among progressive women to the policies of President-elect Donald J. Trump. But the loudest criticism of the march has come not from Trump supporters; rather, it has come from participants who argue that women of color have hijacked the event by focusing it on themselves, instead of women more broadly. March organizers told me they received a surge of complaints after women of color called for more representation on the march’s leadership team. In essence, black and brown women are being labeled divisive for wanting to finally see themselves reflected in the modern feminist agenda. This criticism echoes one of the most persistent attacks against Democrats, from the left and the right, after the presidential election: that a focus on so-called identity politics was in part to blame for Hillary Clinton’s loss. Proponents of this view argue that Democrats have been sidetracked by trying to accommodate the various needs of a diverse America and thus have failed to promote a unifying narrative. Critics miss the point. It’s not selfish — nor need it be divisive — for women of color to push to be included, just as it wasn’t inappropriate for minority groups to expect to be courted by Democrats during the campaign. The problem is not that “identity groups” have some undue obsession with their own agendas. It’s that the groups with the most power often fail to have a sense of solidarity across race and class that would allow for a vision of multicultural liberalism that could reinvigorate the Democratic Party. For decades, identity groups have had to battle for themselves as more privileged groups ignored their needs. Consider the women’s suffrage movement in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The white women who fought for the vote also embraced segregation at marches, even forcing black women, who took part at tremendous personal risk, to walk in the rear. Susan B. Anthony, at whose grave scores of women paid respects on their way to vote in November, opposed the 15th Amendment, which gave black men the right to vote. She and her suffragist sister Elizabeth Cady Stanton wrote in a women’s rights newspaper how “insulting” they found it “to put every shade and type of manhood above our heads.” They urged lawmakers to “let the question of the woman be brought up first and that of the Negro last.” As a Democratic representative from Michigan, Martha Griffiths had similar motivations when she worked to ensure that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 outlawed discrimination on the basis of sex. When a male legislator introduced a provision that added sex as a protected category to the bill (to some laughter), she argued for it by warning that without the amendment, the bill would afford more rights to black women than to white women. The provision passed. And in campaigning for the Violence Against Women Act in the 1990s, coalitions led by white feminists called for more police officers and harsher sentencing laws to combat domestic violence and sexual assault. Although some women of color lent their support, this approach ignored the ways in which factors like race, class, gender identity and immigration status leave some women and their families more vulnerable to police violence. Many immigrant rights groups, for example, have pointed out that undocumented women who need protection from domestic violence might not feel safe calling the police for fear of deportation. Instead, these women need services that aren’t based on the criminal justice system. So it’s a big step in the right direction to have women of color, who are also professional organizers, in prominent leadership positions. Three of the national co-chairwomen, Tamika D. Mallory, Carmen Perez and Linda Sarsour, are largely credited for the overwhelmingly positive reception of the march’s platform, which has been called “unapologetically progressive” and “beautifully intersectional”; quotes the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.; celebrates Black Lives Matter; acknowledges that “our liberation is bound in each other’s”; and tips its hat to feminist leaders of color like Ella Baker, Grace Lee Boggs and Dolores Huerta, who “paved the way for us to march.” In fact, the march is the latest example of how women of color, rather than dragging down social justice movements by pushing to see themselves reflected in them, are well positioned to lead as people who understand interconnected systems of oppression and how to fight them. This is why I’m dismayed by critics of the march who claim to stand for women’s rights, but simultaneously long for the days when protest was “simple.” Things were never simple, and wishing they were ignores the ways that a different approach can address a broader array of concerns. Ms. Sarsour calls the march a chance to embrace a new model of organizing, instead of rallying around single issues. “This is a women-led march focused on the idea that women’s rights are human rights,” she wrote in a blog post. “But we wanted to push that further: that women are intersectional human beings who live multi-issued lives.” Tackling forms of oppression as linked rather than as separate issues can be more powerful. To be sure, the march platform isn’t perfect. Sex workers have rightly raised issues with its failure to meaningfully address their concerns. And in a nod to the dangers of becoming so inclusive as to render political demonstration meaningless, march organizers were forced to awkwardly issue a statement this week reiterating their stance for abortion rights when anti-abortion groups were briefly listed on the march’s website as partners. As progressives prepare to fight a White House and Republican-dominated Congress that wants to roll back gains won under President Obama, they must seek to cultivate a sense of solidarity rather than blaming marginalized people for standing up for themselves. We can more effectively fight a border wall when we understand the impact of immigration reform and deportation not just on “criminals” but on women, children, families and communities; we can more authentically call for reproductive freedom when we see it as a black woman’s right to raise a child without fearing that his life will end at the hands of police. The kind of organizing that helps us understand how white women’s fates are tied to black women’s, men’s to transgender women’s, and middle-class families’ to low-income families’ is exactly what’s needed to build a lasting multicultural liberalism under a Trump administration, and to bring the Democratic Party back into political viability.