When I was in elementary school, I had recurring nightmares about the Holocaust. A certainty hung around me like heavy, dust-filmed drapes — a conviction that it not only could happen again but would. I couldn’t focus on multiplication problems or long division. I was too busy figuring out where I might hide when they came for me. This would seem like psychopathology were it not for several factors. My dad, a history buff fascinated by my mother’s Eastern European Jewish ancestry, had been overzealous in educating me about the Holocaust. I visited Yad Vashem, Israel’s official memorial to Holocaust victims, as a 7-year-old. I knew about the yellow stars, broken glass, the children torn screaming from their mothers. I was not raised Jewish, but as an evangelical Christian. My mom converted to Christianity when she was 16; my dad, a Catholic, became a Baptist in his early 20s and eventually a Baptist pastor. Still, it was important to my father that I knew I was Jewish; he spent his lunch hours at the Brooklyn Public Library learning Yiddish folk songs, which he taught me to sing. He taught me to say the Shema  — the prayer that’s at the center of Jewish daily worship — in Hebrew. All highly unusual for an evangelical child, I need hardly say. My fearful outlook was also influenced by my parents’ evangelicalism, which leaned apocalyptic. I learned at a young age, from the Book of Revelation, that things might get pretty ugly sometime soon. Literature to this effect was delivered with regularity to our house, along with the rest of the church mail. Ultimately, though, it was a dark realization — around the time I was 9 or 10 — about my mother’s father on my Jewish side that justified my nightmarish worldview. My grandfather, Harold Nathan Braunhut, was the semifamous inventor of Sea Monkeys brine shrimp aquarium kits, X-ray Specs and other 1960s oddities for kids. He was also a member of the Ku Klux Klan and Aryan Nations, the white supremacist group. He kept a neo-Nazi armband in one of his dresser drawers and oil paintings of Adolf Hitler, Heinrich Himmler, Hermann Göring and Joseph Goebbels on the wall. Meanwhile, there were no pictures of me in his home. He never once said my name, but preferred to call me “Roxanne” because, I think, it pained him to speak a Jewish name in connection with his own progeny. He dyed his hair blond and added a German-sounding “von” to his own name. In short, he was a terrifying paradox — a neo-Nazi and a Jew. When my mother was young, he would show her pictures of himself in his Klan uniform and ask her to “heil Hitler.” She was terrified of him, and eventually found refuge and comfort in religion, albeit in the Christian church. What had to go wrong for my grandfather to internalize the hate he was subjected to as a child and reflect it back in this way? How did his fear — perhaps a result of his being bullied, beat up and called “Jew boy” while growing up in Tennessee — turn into hardened self-loathing and an active hatred of others? It was this kind of fear that I thought about after the presidential election. My grandfather supported George C. Wallace in 1968. Had he not died in 2003, he would have supported Donald J. Trump. I thought about my own deeply paralyzing childhood fears as well. Both extremes had only consumed us. I now have two sons, a third grader and a fifth grader. They know of Hitler’s existence, though I’ve withheld the details. They know about their great-grandfather in general terms, too. They know he was a creative inventor and an illusion-loving showman, but not a very nice man. I don’t mention armbands, portraits of Himmler and unspeakable racist jokes. I’m not sure when I’ll bring that up, or how. I know that it’s a privilege to shelter children, and it’s one I’m clinging to. My sons also know something about the election and Mr. Trump, but again, I’ve left much unsaid. We talk about hate and disrespect but we don’t get into particulars. I turn the radio off when they enter the room. For now, I encourage their knowledge of — and love for — Ruby Bridges, Rosa Parks and other heroes of the civil rights movement. Together, we seek out inspiring civic and cultural figures to learn about, and I try to nurture their patriotic interest in politics and government by explaining how it all works. I know I will have to talk with them about hate and how biases form in us and others. Having a white supremacist in the family has instilled in me a painful vigilance about my child rearing, as well as a zeal for building bridges over cultural divisions. But I don’t want them to build their lives around anger, and resistance fueled solely by fear begets only more fear. Cleareyed vigilance and action, motivated by joyful resistance, is a possibility for all of us.