Washington — Adam Anderson bet big on the Donald Trump movement. Mr. Anderson, 27, is a solar power salesman in New Hampshire. Before the election, he made an online wager that Mr. Trump would win the election. He told me he planned to spend part of the $3,000 that he won on a new gaming computer. “I’m going to spend it slowly on stupid stuff,” he said, and laughed. Now Mr. Anderson was in Washington, along with his friend and stepbrother, to finish collecting his (metaphorical) winnings. The three of them had driven down from New Hampshire and stayed at an Airbnb in Silver Spring, Md., on Thursday night for just $90. They had staked out some prime real estate on the inaugural parade route, at Third and Constitution, though the market was not exactly flooded. There was plenty of elbow room. Across the line of metal barricades, a police officer spat sunflower seed shells onto Constitution Avenue. The sun never came out. Despite the ominous weather, the Trump crowd was in good spirits. Mr. Anderson is a proud millennial for Trump. While many of his peers had come to Washington to protest the inauguration, he was here to visit the Swamp for the first time and cheer on the man who has pledged to drain it. Emotions were running high outside the security gates on Friday, with protesters in downtown Washington clashing with Trump supporters and the police. But inside the security perimeter, everyone waited patiently in the rain to enjoy the day — and the new president’s victory, despite what everyone (especially the media) had predicted would happen. But even some of Mr. Trump’s supporters seemed unsure of whether Mr. Trump would follow through on his promises. Mr. Anderson said he was concerned about Mr. Trump’s nominating Rex Tillerson, the former C.E.O. of Exxon Mobil, to become secretary of state. “I really do hope he does what he’s saying, but I’ve been hearing he’s surrounding himself with swampy people,” Mr. Anderson said as we waited for the ceremony to begin. “Maybe we should just trust him,” he finally decided. Mr. Anderson’s stepbrother, Carl Weir, is a tuba student at the University of Hartford in Connecticut. He said he was most excited to see the military band perform in the parade. Before voting for Mr. Trump this year, Mr. Weir voted for Senator John McCain for president in 2008 and for President Obama in 2012. Naif Alawaji, 29, is from Saudi Arabia and went to college with Mr. Anderson in New Hampshire. He wore a red Make America Great Again hat, but didn’t seem overjoyed at our current political moment. “After this election, things started getting nasty,” he said. President Trump won 37 percent of the vote from people ages 18 to 29, to Hillary Clinton’s 55 percent. Why do his young supporters think fewer people in their generation supported the new president? “They haven’t lived or learned much about history,” Mr. Anderson said. He pointed to the United States’ internment of Japanese citizens during World War II as an example of history that millennials should learn from. “But that wasn’t a great idea,” Mr. Alawaji said. Mr. Anderson shrugged. “Crazy times might need crazy actions,” he said. “Yeah, it might look bad in hindsight, but at the time it seemed like the right thing to do.” Back outside the security perimeter, two younger women from Maryland sporting red Make America Great Again hats sat on a concrete planter, taking a break from the crowds. Erin Cunningham, 29, is a human resources consultant. She and her friend had V.I.P. tickets to the inauguration ceremony, and to an Inaugural Ball on Friday night. She said she couldn’t hear most of Mr. Trump’s inaugural speech because protesters yelled throughout the address. She said the protesters were “bullies” throwing an “adult tantrum.” “I hate that I’m a millennial because I do not fit in with my generation,” she said. “If this is what high looks like, what does it look like when you go low?” The young Trump supporters I talked to blamed media bias or censorship on social media feeds for their generation’s ire toward Mr. Trump. “I think social media has a lot to do with it. We’re all locked into our iPhones,” Mr. Anderson said. “Mark Zuckerberg and a lot of the people who control it, they get to censor it.” Ms. Cunningham said she would like to engage with people her age whom she disagrees with about politics, but feels shut out of the conversation as soon as a liberal peer accuses her of being racist, sexist or any other -ist. “You’re not going to convince me by yelling at me and telling me I’m a bad person,” she said, and later added, “I don’t think I can be racist if I used to date people of the opposite races.” The young Trump supporters said they liked his realness, his lack of a script — a trait that many of them equated with honesty. Ms. Cunningham said she got frustrated with his off-the-cuff remarks throughout the campaign. But on Friday, the stage was set, everything was scripted, and the pomp and circumstance felt surprisingly like any other inauguration ceremony for any other president. Despite the protesters’ disruptions and the dreary weather, the Trump-loving millennials seemed to be relishing their time in Washington — especially if they could engage in some light trolling while they were in town. Before the inaugural ceremony began, the Trump bros I had embedded with watched a troupe of service members march by on the parade route. One female service member was roughly a foot shorter than the men in her regiment. “She’s working hard to keep up the pace,” Mr. Weir noted. “Do you think we’ll ever have a midget president?” Mr. Anderson joked. “I’d support him or her — just for diversity’s sake,” Mr. Weir said with fake solemnity. “Midgets for Trump!” Mr. Anderson said. They laughed. They could take things seriously again tomorrow, if they wanted.