I’ve heard stories about towns in America that celebrated when Donald J. Trump won the election. People shouting on main streets, driving around honking their horns — elation. Washington wasn’t one of those towns. Here, 4 percent of Washingtonians voted for Mr. Trump. Ordinarily, people put their heads down and get on with it. This inauguration is different, though. There’s an infectious sense of fear and anxiety that’s impossible to avoid. “I woke up last night, and there were people outside my apartment shouting ‘U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A!’ ” I overheard a woman in Dupont Circle telling her friends on Thursday. “I said, ‘No, not this time’ and closed my window.” I came to town last week to attend a photography seminar. A large group of editors and photographers looked at stories from around the world — refugees, wildlife, Islam — but on every break we took, it was all worry all the time. The mood has permeated outside private spaces people usually express themselves. The angst is right there, in your face, on the street, the steps to the Capitol, the subway. I haven’t seen people this affected since 2008, when I photographed Wall Street as we entered the Great Recession. Today, as it was back then, the sentiment is infectious — I finish every day of taking pictures in a mood as foul as the people I’m photographing. On the National Mall on Wednesday, I chatted with a foreman of a work crew laying flooring for the Inauguration. “It’s not just the locals,” he said, turning around to face the Capitol building, “it’s them, too. Trump’s an outsider. Everyone’s worried.” Security is tight. Can’t photograph the Department of Interior. Can’t photograph police groupings. Can’t photograph the hanging of the unofficial presidential portrait. The heightened police visibility and never-ending sounds of sirens echoing through the streets just add another layer to the already edgy sentiment here. As the local mood grew darker, visitors started filling the hotels. In the Willard hotel on Wednesday, said to be the spot where lobbying got its start, the lobby was packed with gentlemen in smoking jackets, women wrapped in furs and Chanel. “Are you from Washington?” I asked a tall woman in a black gown and opera length satin gloves. “Yes,” she replied in a thick Slavic accent. Exhausted by the constant political chatter, I went to the National Portrait Gallery to disengage from the present and get lost in history with the portraits of presidents past. But the distinct sense of foreboding followed me. I walked through the rest of the gallery — it was quiet, before opening time when, among the generals and aristocrats on the walls, I came across a captivating painting of Yarrow Mamout, a freed Muslim slave. Above Mamout’s portrait was a quote from Benjamin Franklin that encapsulated all the emotions I was feeling, and so succinctly: “A republic, if you can keep it.”