WASHINGTON — My mother had one piece of advice for me when I was in my 20s: Don’t marry until you’re at least 30. I used to laugh when she’d say it. Marriage was far from my mind, a distant goal, if anything — something I certainly felt could wait. But of course it hadn’t been that way for her. As a young widow and single mother in the 1970s, she struggled against sexism at every turn. Her advice on marriage was meant to protect me, but I think it also thrilled her that her daughter had freedom and opportunities she’d never had. I have always believed that women of my generation in this country have it better than my mother did when she was younger. But since Hillary Clinton lost to Donald J. Trump, I’ve been wondering whether the rights women have gained are as steadfast as I once assumed. Watching our new president take his oath of office, it felt to me that misogyny won. As my mom always says, “It’s O.K. to be a sexist in this country.” When I was younger, I could laugh off her suggestion that I wait to marry — it wasn’t a necessity for me like it had been for her. But now I see the cracks in the foundation of my own feminist ideals. Take, for example, my current situation. I followed my mom’s advice, and married in my 30s. Right now my husband is out of a job. For five years he worked as a political appointee in the Obama administration. Like so many others in Washington, we felt confident that Hillary Clinton would be the next president and that he would stay in his position, at least for a while. It was a gamble, certainly. And so for now I am the sole income earner of our household. I have a great job at a reputable nonprofit, but my salary is just about half of what his was. We have a 7-month-old son who is in day care, and we rent an apartment in the city. My monthly earnings are not enough to cover those two expenses alone. As a young woman, why didn’t I consider getting a degree that would pay my bills, and then some? I got my M.F.A. in fiction, after majoring in English as an undergraduate. My husband, on the other hand, has a law degree. We took different paths, but have similar backgrounds — we both grew up in middle-class families in the Midwest. Why did I never think beyond supporting anyone but myself? The answer is that I expected if I met a man I wanted to marry, and we had a family together, he would have the higher income. Admitting this isn’t easy. But I realize now that even as women’s lives have changed — as our reproductive rights have expanded, as we marry later and stay in the work force after having children — a basic paradigm persists. Many educated, middle-class straight women expect to make less money than our partners. At the same time, many of us also expect certain rights: to focus on our careers, to have financial independence, to choose if and when we have children. I have been taking for granted the progress my mother’s generation made so that the women of my generation could benefit from their hard-won gains. That won’t suit any longer. Tamika Mallory, one of the organizers of the Women’s March on Washington on Saturday, wrote in 2015 that marching has been a part of her life for as long as she can remember. “People often remark on the futility of marching, but I was raised by a family who marched steadfast and often,” she said. It’s not that I’ve ever thought of marching as futile or otherwise. It’s that I’ve never thought to march. When I read more of what Ms. Mallory had to say about marching, I felt ashamed that it took the dread of Donald J. Trump to wake me up to the reality that progress is never permanent, or certain. So Saturday morning I woke up and headed downtown. The streets of my neighborhood were filled with women and men in pink hats, carrying signs. There was good cheer everywhere I looked. And there was an undeniable electricity — a charge of new energy after Friday’s astonishingly frightening inauguration. I could feel hope and excitement brimming on the metro, where I rode standing beside a middle-aged woman from New York, who brought her 81-year-old mother in a wheelchair. They had been planning to come to the inauguration when they thought they’d be witnessing history, but they kept their plans because they said they couldn’t sit at home and do nothing. As I marched, I kept thinking about the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and his words, recalled by Representative John Lewis of Georgia, that “there is no noise as powerful as the sound of the marching feet of a determined people.” It wasn’t just the sound of hundreds of thousands of women and men’s feet, though, that reminded me we have power — it was the chants, the faces, the signs, the random bursts of applause and cheers. What do we have to celebrate? A unified community. And the hope that if we keep protesting, we will be heard. For days after the election, I fought back tears every time the thought crossed my mind that, though my mother has seen me accomplish so many of the things she always wanted for herself, she most likely won’t live to see a woman hold our country’s highest office. It’s up to us, now, the women of my generation, to live through this new presidency with the acute awareness that we can take nothing for granted, and to organize and protest whenever our rights are threatened. Maybe someday I’ll be marching downtown with my son to see a woman take the oath of office.