In 2011, a political firestorm hit the Philippines in the form of a Reproductive Health Bill. The proposed law was radical: It guaranteed women living in the deeply Catholic and densely populated nation universal access to contraception, fertility control and maternal care, and mandated sex education in schools. While the bill’s defeat or enactment held weighty implications, nowhere were the stakes more starkly apparent than in Dr. Jose Fabella Memorial Hospital, one of the busiest maternity and newborn tertiary public hospitals in the world, which has averaged 60 births a day — and sometimes one baby every 12 minutes. As the bill’s proponents and opponents debated it in legislative chambers, across town the crowded Fabella hospital was the final safety net for very poor pregnant women, most of whom could not afford either contraception or the $60 delivery fee. Sign up to receive a newsletter with the latest documentary from the series, discussions with filmmakers and news about coming events. I visited Fabella hospital while I was in Manila researching the legislative and social battle around the Reproductive Health Bill and found myself immediately drawn into this very particular world. More than the hospital, I wanted to tell the stories of the mothers it cares for, and the makeshift communities they forge there sharing profoundly intimate communal spaces with one another. At Fabella, I found mothers on their ninth child sharing beds with brand new mothers of twins. They were generous, bawdy and strong despite the obvious challenges of their situation. I was most surprised by their humor — a salve, a defense to keep the disappointments and hardships at bay even for just a short time. The joy in Fabella is no different from the joys experienced by mothers worldwide. Because this film takes place in the Philippines, it invites audiences to witness analogous situations from the very different perspective of a foreign country. The bill passed in 2012, becoming the Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive Health Act. It saw implementation and budgetary challenges, however, under the previous administration of President Benigno Aquino, who left office last summer. The administration of the controversial current president, Rodrigo Duterte, has said it is committed to accelerating the implementation of this law. This video is part of a series produced by independent filmmakers who have received support from the nonprofit Sundance Institute. Ramona S. Diaz is a documentary filmmaker and Guggenheim fellow whose films have screened at festivals including Sundance, Tribeca, and IDFA. Her feature-length documentary “Motherland” premiered at the 2017 Sundance Film Festival. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 