In one of his first acts as president, Donald Trump introduced a ban on funding for any international organization that, anywhere in its health care programs, provides or even discusses abortions with patients, other than in cases of rape, incest or life endangerment. Known as the global gag rule because it prevents talking with women about the procedure, this ban has been enforced and revoked by different administrations since it was first imposed in 1984. It has been illegal to fund abortions as a method of family planning with U.S. money since 1973, but the gag rule pulls other family planning funding — for H.I.V. prevention or contraception, for example — if an organization even advises a patient on where to get an abortion. President Trump’s rule goes even further, and pulls all global health assistance, including for programs that address infectious diseases like malaria, Zika and Ebola. Whenever this rule is instated — always by Republican presidents — health clinics around the world are often forced to close their family-planning programs because they are dependent on funding from the United States. Not providing abortion counseling to patients because of the political agenda of a donor means abandoning a standard of care that women rely on for basic health needs. Though technically the law allows for exceptions for rape, incest and life endangerment, organizations on the ground have insufficient guidance on how to follow those rules. Many either cut abortion counseling altogether or forgo funding. But contrary to its stated purpose of reducing the number of abortions, the rule is actually associated with increased abortion rates as family-planning programs disappear without funding. In 2011, Stanford University researchers found that abortions rose in sub-Saharan Africa when the rule was in effect. Another study by the International Food Policy Research Institute found the same effect in Ghana in rural and poor populations. This makes sense: Without access to contraceptive education and resources, more women face unwanted pregnancies, and opt for unsafe abortions. The global gag rule even chokes off important research. In Nepal, after the rule was reinstated in 2001, surveys and campaigns to raise awareness about how unsafe abortions contribute to the country’s extremely high maternal mortality rate were defunded by the United States. Fewer family planning programs also increase the risk of the spread of sexually transmitted disease. In 2001, Lesotho Planned Parenthood — then the only provider of condoms in the country — went from receiving 426,000 condoms during the Clinton administration to becoming ineligible for any shipments. At the time, one in four women in the country were infected with H.I.V. This is costly for everyone. A growing body of research over the past few decades shows that family planning services contribute to healthier lives and stronger economies. If President Trump really respected women the way he claims, he would support their health rather than endangering it.