IF you’re searching for a lens to understand just how President Trump sees the world, his executive orders on Tuesday reviving the Keystone XL and expediting the Dakota Access pipelines provide a sharply focused glimpse. In a word, he looks backward at all times. We’re beginning to get a better sense of what he means by “again” in “Make America Great Again.” On questions of jobs and industry, he looks back at least to the 1950s. If something is big and made of steel, then it’s great. Like some Soviet Realist painter, Mr. Trump seems to have an image stuck in his head of brawny men building a nation. Those are real jobs, and all the other innovation in the economy doesn’t amount to much. In fact (a phrase that suddenly seems politically charged) that’s not how economies work any more: If something is big and steel, it’s probably going to be run by robots. If the Keystone XL Pipeline is ever completed, for instance, it will employ about 35 full-time workers, relying for its operation on a vast network of sensors, drones and the like. The number of workers employed in generating solar power now surpasses those employed in the generation of electricity from coal, gas and oil combined. On questions of energy economics, Mr. Trump is stuck somewhere in the Reagan era, when energy independence at any cost was the watchword. He’s lost the plot of modern technological development. It’s sun and wind that are going to be our dominant sources of power as their prices continue to plummet. In fact, his approach may be even more antique: Fixating on Canada’s tar sands — where the economics of extracting low-quality crude have driven one big company after another out of that oil patch — is roughly equivalent, in its energy logic, to planning a sperm whale expedition. And on the question of relations with the people who first inhabited this continent — well, he would fit in just fine with Andrew Jackson. Standing Rock, the scene of the battle over the Dakota pipeline, stands with Flint., Mich., as the flash points of environmental racism in our recent history. The Obama administration made a significant stride forward when it took seriously the complaints of Native Americans; Mr. Trump clearly prefers a world where Indians are simply colorful set decorations in the diorama of American history. It’s impossible to predict exactly how these pipeline battles will play out. Each is a complex mix of commercial, political and legal calculation. TransCanada, the company behind Keystone XL, said Tuesday that it was “fully committed” to building the pipeline, even though the planned expansion of oil extraction in the tar sands isn’t happening. So we’ll see. In the case of the Dakota pipeline, it’s unclear whether President Trump can simply wave away the environmental impact review that the Army Corps of Engineers has begun on that project. What is clear, however, is that there will be enormous resistance. Many Indian nations were represented at the Standing Rock camp, and they drew big contingents of clergy members, military veterans and young people as allies. Farmers and ranchers across the heartland are far more sophisticated than they were a decade ago in standing up to eminent domain actions by foreign corporations. Demonstrations against the pipelines were popping up around the country within hours of the president’s action. There will be a major gathering in the capital on April 29 to demand a clean energy revolution. And looking further forward — the opposite of the direction in which the president is staring — the future becomes very clear indeed. Temperatures around the planet are rising, and rising fast; we may be weeks away from observing an iceberg the size of Delaware dropping off the edge of the Antarctic. In the real, fact-based world the pressure for change will become impossible to resist, and the only question is who will get to lead, and benefit from, the transition. As the director of international economics for China’s Foreign Ministry said over the weekend about his nation’s standing on the world stage, “If anyone were to say China is playing a leadership role in the world, I would say it’s not China rushing to the front but rather the front-runners have stepped back.” It’s easy enough to imagine that, even if he gets them built, Mr. Trump’s pet pipelines will be relics long before their life span is over, rusting reminders of what happens when countries get mesmerized by the past and take their eye off the future.