This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. President Trump has narrowed his Supreme Court list. Not surprisingly, the names on it will hearten conservatives and anger liberals. Three names are getting the most attention: ■ Neil Gorsuch. Scotusblog notes he has much in common with Antonin Scalia, whose death created the vacancy last year. Like Scalia, Gorsuch is an “exceptionally clear and routinely entertaining” writer. He is also extremely conservative — “one of the judiciary’s leading spokespeople” for hobbling “progressive labor and environmental regulations,” according to Ian Millhiser of ThinkProgress. Vox, on the other hand, sees Gorsuch as more sympathetic to criminal defendants than many conservatives. ■ William Pryor, a former attorney general of Alabama and aggressive opponent of abortion and homosexual rights. Pryor is the highest profile of the possibilities, with Senate Democrats initially blocking his 2003 nomination to the federal bench. He is also a protégé of Jeff Sessions, Trump’s choice for attorney general. But Pryor has more recently signaled some support for transgender rights, which may be why some observers believe his chances have slipped a bit. ■ Thomas Hardiman, a first-generation college graduate who drove a taxi to help pay for Georgetown law school. “Hardiman is a solid, although hardly knee-jerk, conservative who was active in Republican politics before joining the federal bench,” Amy Howe of Scotusblog writes, “and his jurisprudence as a Supreme Court justice likely would be closer to another justice who hails from the 3rd Circuit: Justice Samuel Alito.” Whomever Trump chooses, don’t forget that Senate Republicans stole this seat from the president who rightly should have filled it. Democrats probably can’t prevent Trump from filling the seat, but they also should not forget the theft — and look for ways to get even in the future. Harsh as that may sound, it’s also fair.