This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. There is a big inconvenient fact about conservative health care proposals, as Ross Douthat notes in his latest column: Virtually no real-world successful example exists. “That is,” he writes, “the right’s best health care minds believe that markets and competition can deliver lower costs and better care, and they believe it even though there is no clear example of a modern health care system built along the lines that they desire.” Yet he also points out that the ideas can claim some more narrow but still substantial successes, such as Medicare’s prescription drug program and the market for laser-eye surgery. The question is whether a market-oriented approach will work when it’s expanded to an entire health care system. I think of it as the Snuffleupagus question: Is the conservative belief in free-market health care a fantasy? Or will it eventually be shown to be real, like the Sesame Street character whose existence was wrongly doubted for years? The most intriguing recent proposal to come from Capitol Hill is based on the assumption that the conservative faith is justified. The plan — known as Cassidy-Collins, after its sponsors — would let states that like Obamacare to keep it, while others could move to a more market-based system for expanded health insurance. For now, the plan is struggling to find supporters on either the right or left, because it tries to split the difference between them, but Douthat hopes it can ultimately gain more support: “If the right’s wonks are right about health policy, the Cassidy-Collins approach should — gradually — enable conservatives to prove it.” Sarah Kliff at Vox also thinks that Cassidy-Collins is “important to keep an eye on.” Jonathan Cohn and Laura Barron-Lopez of Huffington Post have looked at the proposal too, and Topher Spiro of the Center for American Progress thinks it’s seriously flawed. And in the comments section, Mike Pod of Delaware notes that Obamacare already incorporates a lot of conservative ideas.