In this virtual reality experience, “Orbital Vanitas,” you are placed inside an enormous human skull that is orbiting above the earth. The atmosphere reflects my current mood in both political and philosophical terms — which is very dark indeed. The work is also the result of my obsession with skulls through the history of Western art, known as the tradition of Vanitas, and its reminder of our imminent death. Here, I have placed that skull and all that it symbolizes within the dark void of space. I imagined the skull approaching and then engulfing you, as if it were the mysterious surviving fragment of a lost science fiction film. Against this meditation on our own mortality, I also hoped to display the beauty of the earth, sun and surrounding field of stars. So “Orbital Vanitas” is my attempt to connect the concepts of Vanitas and the sublime through the medium of virtual reality. But it wasn’t enough to just look at this orbiting skull from an outside perspective. Since the beginning of civilization, we have represented the exterior form of our own skulls. I wanted to go a step further and enter the interior landscape of the skull. Through virtual reality, the skull transforms into an enormous planet in itself. Advertisement The bone structure within this anatomically correct but large-scale skull becomes its own extraordinary landscape. For example, the part of the sphenoid bone known as the Turkish saddle, becomes the edge of a sheer limestone cliff that we float over. The eye socket (or “orbit” in Latin) takes on the appearance of a complex cave system that we slowly fall through. Sign up to receive a newsletter with the latest documentary from the series, discussions with filmmakers and news about coming events. So “Orbital Vanitas” is both a celebration of virtual reality and also a critique. We have been locked into our own heads — our senses arrested by a technology that offers us images without frames. Within this medium, the human skull resembles Plato’s allegory of the cave: We imprison ourselves within flickering illusions and simulations. What we have devised with the space of our skulls now influences that other sphere we float above — the entire earth. This virtual reality experience is part of a series produced by independent filmmakers who have received support from the nonprofit Sundance Institute. Shaun Gladwell is an Australian contemporary artist whose work spans painting, photography, sculpture, performance, video and virtual reality. “Orbital Vanitas” was featured at the Sundance New Frontier Exhibition. Op-Docs is a forum for short, opinionated documentaries, produced with creative latitude by independent filmmakers and artists. Learn more about Op-Docs and how to submit to the series. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 