President Trump lost the popular vote by nearly three million votes, the largest negative margin for anyone elected president in the modern era. But on Monday, during his first official meeting with congressional leaders, Mr. Trump insisted that he actually won the popular vote — once you subtract the three million to five million illegally cast ballots, all of which he says, were cast “for the other side.” Now he is calling for a major federal investigation into election fraud that, according to the White House press secretary, will focus on “urban areas” in “big states” that Mr. Trump lost, like California and New York. Here are the (non-alternative) facts: There were more than 135 million ballots cast in November. A careful review by The Washington Post documented a grand total of just four cases of voter fraud nationwide — including an Iowa woman who voted twice for Mr. Trump. And during the recount litigation in Michigan, the president’s own legal team told a court that “all available evidence suggests that the 2016 general election was not tainted by fraud or mistake.” But don’t take it from them. Just ask yourself if this story seems plausible: Sophisticated cheats committed widespread election fraud to the tune of five million votes and vanished without a trace. But they forgot to steal 80,000 votes in three states (Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin) that would have been decisive for Hillary Clinton. It’s as if the thieves from “Ocean’s Eleven” broke into Fort Knox, left behind the gold bars and took a stamp collection. So why would the president make this easily debunked claim that there was widespread voter fraud? First, he faces a legitimacy problem. I’m not talking about rigged or hacked voting machines. The Rust Belt recounts show only that our voting systems score high on integrity. Sure, voting machines can always use improvements, and meltdowns have happened (see Florida, 2000). But, despite unsubstantiated concerns raised by Jill Stein and others, there is no evidence of large-scale fraud or miscounting — certainly nothing that could tip multiple states by tens of thousands of votes. The truth is that Mr. Trump won critical battleground states and the Electoral College with 304 votes. And that’s why he’s the president. The Electoral College is the law of the land, but opinion polls over the last 15 years indicate that most Americans — about 60 percent — agree that it should be scrapped in favor of the popular vote. (The number of Americans in favor of keeping the Electoral College, however, did jump to about 47 percent shortly after Mr. Trump’s victory.) The Republican Party’s outsize representation in Congress, thanks to geography and gerrymandering, in some ways parallels Mr. Trump’s minority victory. In 2012, Republican candidates for the House of Representatives received a minority of votes nationally, but captured a safe margin in the House; in 2016 they won about 50 percent of votes, but 55 percent of the seats. This disproportionality is a problem replicated in statehouses around the country — one that both parties have, to some extent, been guilty of perpetuating. If the legitimacy of the government derives from the consent of the majority, then at some point, we will have to address this disjuncture between the popular will and our elected bodies. We should start with nonpartisan redistricting reforms, and a fresh look at the Electoral College. But Mr. Trump’s comments make the adoption of democratic reforms that much harder. Second, there’s a more insidious longer-term purpose here as well. Propaganda about illegal voting has been used — throughout history and in modern times — to justify unnecessary restrictions on voting. Unpopular incumbents like Mr. Trump can help their odds of re-election with measures that make it harder for people to vote. Judging by the people with whom the president surrounds himself, such restrictions may be in the cards, starting with a clearer path for states to enact restrictive identification requirements. The president’s nominee for attorney general, Jeff Sessions, was infamous in the 1980s for a failed voter fraud prosecution against three civil rights activists, one of whom was a close aide of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. That incident helped doom his nomination for a federal judgeship. And just a few days ago, Mr. Sessions declined to commit to continuing the Department of Justice’s litigation against voter suppression laws in Texas and North Carolina — the latter of which was described by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit as targeting African-American voters “with almost surgical precision.” Ominously, the Justice Department recently asked for a postponement of a hearing in the Texas case, which might herald a switch in sides — and a transformation of the department from a reliable defender of voting rights into an enabler of state-mandated voting restrictions. The next step might be forcing voters to submit documents proving that they’re citizens. The source of Mr. Trump’s professed beliefs about illegal voting is apparently Kris Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state, who supported a law that has prevented tens of thousands of Kansans from registering to vote. Last year, in a case brought by the A.C.L.U., the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit blocked the law, ruling that Kansas can’t require citizenship papers from voters who register at the D.M.V. In an opinion by a George W. Bush appointee, Judge Jerome Holmes, the court warned that the Kansas law risked “mass denial of a fundamental constitutional right,” and called Mr. Kobach’s assertions about widespread noncitizen voting “pure speculation.” With Mr. Kobach as an adviser, the Trump administration may try to reproduce Kansas’s mass disenfranchisement on a national scale. But these kinds of voting restrictions are the opposite of what we need right now. America has one of the lowest turnout rates among Western democracies. Government is more accountable and responsive when more people, not fewer, participate. For years, red states like Montana and Idaho have used common-sense reforms that expand voter participation, like Election Day registration, without any reports (or tweets) about a horde of illegal voters. The rest of the country should follow their example and not the president’s.