CORVALLIS, Ore. — Now and then my youngest daughter writes me a note. In June, for example: Happy father day Love you so much Great father Great time with you your gigs awesome your rockstar Laura For the record, I am no Rolling Stone. Gigs with my band are in bars and coffeehouses. Still, I keep the note taped up over my desk, along with the others. When I look at them, I imagine Laura writing in her downstairs room, the walls covered with “Star Wars” stickers and “Frozen” posters and ribbons from 4-H rabbit shows. She tears the note from the spiral notebook, folds it in half, scrawls “DAD” on the outside. Then she hurries up the stairs to find me and thrusts the folded note into my hands. Laura is 15 now, and she has Down syndrome, so writing about her has its complications. For each sentence, I could add a page of narrative caveats, a fine print to govern the legal interpretation of anecdote: This positive description is not intended to inspire. Yes, she is sweet, but also has non-sweet moments. The author stipulates to the existence of said moments, but feels no need to describe them for “balance.” Despite his numerous positive encounters with persons with Down syndrome, the author explicitly rejects the contention that they share a single, winning “personality,” or the underlying assumption that any one can represent all the others. Though the author has strong opinions on a range of social issues, he declines to weaponize his daughter in their service. Laura is not an example in an argument. She is not a success story. She is not a story at all. She is a person, and by describing her, the author does not speak “for” her, but intends to suggest what she is like and raise questions about the world she enters. This work is related to, yet different from, his work as a parent, which is to help her find, in every sense, her place.  Behind these caveats is the wish to control interpretation, and behind that vain hope is, in no particular order, a writer’s ego, a father’s protectiveness and a deep familiarity with the average internet comment section. Faced with the text of Laura’s note, one reader might see confirmation that all people with Down syndrome are sweet; another might say, If she’s writing, she’s unusually high-functioning; another might spew obscenities, abuse and variations on the word “retard”; another might say, Well, that’s all very nice for now, but what happens when she’s an adult and the parents die and she’s a burden on the rest of us? Saying positive things about a child with Down syndrome on the internet is like accelerating protons to near light speed in the Large Hadron Collider. You get an explosion of legible trails, and a secondary explosion of analysis and speculation, and in the aftermath, the child seems almost hypothetical: a particle whose theoretical value is much debated, but whose existence has yet to be confirmed. Complications like this don’t much interest Laura. She likes what she likes, which at the moment involves spoiling her rabbit, Skyping with her older sister, refusing help on her homework, and streaming episodes of “Emergency!” on the iPad. Her preference for simplicity, like my fondness for complication, is an effect of identity, of which ability is only a part. We’re both working with the brains we have. If she writes, Great time with you your gigs, it’s because I’ve been playing out a lot lately, and if she puts down things as they occur to her — first thought, best thought — and disdains punctuation, those choices remain appropriate for what a writing teacher might call the Rhetorical Situation. Her style is pure Laura, and for her intended audience, it works. In one way, Laura’s Father’s Day note is nothing special: Lots of people with Down syndrome read and write. In another, it is evidence of a radical transformation that began in my lifetime, and is still underway. In the United States, children with intellectual disabilities won the right to attend public school only in 1975, by way of what is now known as the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act, or IDEA. Laura’s words express the law’s existence, the structures and supports that flow from the law, the teachers and aides who make good on the law’s promise, and Laura’s own will to communicate. And they express a future, in which her place depends, in part, on her ability to decode the world around her and make her wishes known. Lately, that future seems more fragile. That’s partly because it’s nearer than it used to be. Parents call it “the cliff”: the moment, at 21, when a child ages out of the school system. What’s left, after you go over the cliff, are far fewer options for work, housing and an independent daily life. It’s common to point out that intellectually disabled adults “fall through the cracks,” but this metaphor is not quite right, because it suggests a landscape that is mostly solid. It is mostly made of cracks. Most adults with intellectual or developmental disabilities don’t work, even though most want to, and fewer still receive a living wage. Most don’t live independently, even when they could. Many face discrimination, exploitation and abuse. With the election of Donald J. Trump, both the systems on which the disabled depend and the acceptance vital to their full participation in society are under threat. Trump’s nominee for secretary of education, Betsy DeVos, would divert money from public schools to private schools, where IDEA does not apply; in a confirmation hearing, she avoided substantive questions about it, and even seemed unfamiliar with the law or its importance. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has opposed inclusion by characterizing children with disabilities as classroom behavioral problems, threats to the presumably normal children. Like a lot of people, I woke up on Nov. 9 wondering what sort of country I lived in. A man had successfully campaigned on the prejudices that divide us. Whether he personally held those prejudices — against African-Americans, Mexicans, Muslims, women or the disabled — was not the point. The point was his willingness to appeal to them. By scapegoating in this way, he showed himself ready to use marginalized people for a calculated end. Laura’s a good kid and works hard in school. People love her and she rarely gets lunch detention. We’re incredibly proud of her for all that, but I don’t want her successes used to suggest that everything is peachy, educationwise, in the United States (it’s not), or turned against others who have a harder time with achievement or behavior. Some students are nonverbal. Some act out. They, too, need to be valued, and to have a valued place, in school and after. For a parent, then, the question is how to respond. At the beginning of this essay, I wrote, She is not an example in an argument. But clearly I have made her one. Perhaps the statement was aspirational. I suppose that as long as the meaning of disability is contested, any story will be adduced as an example, whether the writer wants it to or not. Perhaps the best I can do is to say that Laura is irreducible to example, that she is more complex than any structure of words, that she develops even as the words remain fixed. When parents and others do speak about or for people with intellectual disabilities, we need to do so responsibly. For a start, that means surrendering rhetorical techniques that are crude but effective. It’s easy, for example, to play to positive stereotypes of Down syndrome, but doing so would buy into everything I reject: taking the individual for the group; accepting the medical classification of that group as the primary one; auditioning for acceptance making the child a reality show contestant, canned story and all. A victory on these terms is not worth having, because it leaves the larger conceptual errors untouched, and how we conceive of people with disabilities is crucial — which is to say, how we conceive of we, of who is counted in the first person plural. These are only first steps, but they matter. If we publicly recognize the common interests of people now marginalized, if we recognize that “their” interests are also ours, we can resist policies that undo their rights and protections — and continue the project of building a world where we, in the broadest sense, can fully belong.