Over the last 20 years, my wife and I have built several fashion companies, including Lilla P and Leo & Sage, that we design and distribute. We employ about 30 people directly, and dozens more indirectly as freelancers and sales representatives. Entrepreneurs like us should be ecstatic over the pro-business rhetoric coming out of the White House and Congress. But we’re not, because they are considering unfair tax-code changes that, if put in place, could hurt businesses like ours — and millions of American consumers. The proposal in question is the border adjustment tax, which Republicans are mulling as part of a comprehensive corporate tax reform, and which President Trump has embraced as a possible way to pay for a wall on the Mexican border. The idea behind the tax is pretty simple. Right now, companies can write off the cost of imports, whether they’re finished products or parts that are assembled domestically. In my industry — clothing and footwear — 97 percent of what is sold in America is contracted out to mills around the globe, then import the pieces for sale or final assembly here. In a market where consumers demand low-priced, high-quality products, it’s nearly impossible to do it any other way; American mills are either outdated or too small, and American production costs are too high. A border adjustment tax would “adjust” our tax bill by no longer allowing deductions on imports. At the same time, it would exempt companies from income taxes on goods sold abroad, as an incentive for exporters to base their manufacturing in the United States. Let’s look at how this would play out for a typical fashion designer in New York City. Her 20-employee company has $10 million in annual sales; her cost of goods sold is $4 million; and expenses like payroll and rent are $5 million. That leaves her company with a tidy pretax profit of $1 million, which is then subject to federal, state and local taxes. But with the border adjustment, her company’s imports will now be subject to tax — assuming she imports 100 percent of her goods, that would raise her tax base from $1 million to $5 million, even though she isn’t making any more money. Based on the proposal, her tax bill would in all likelihood exceed her profits. Our fashion designer has three options. She can shut her doors — and I know many people in the industry who, already skating on thin profit margins, probably will. She can start buying domestically — an option for some, but again, domestic supply chains in textiles and other sectors are spotty and expensive. Her third option is to pass on the cost to consumers, and that’s what most businesses will probably do. These wouldn’t be small increases; in many industries, imported goods are one of the biggest expenses. If the tax passes, consumers will have to get used to paying a whole lot more for shoes and shirts. And for TVs as well, because it’s not just fashion designers who will be affected. Anyone reliant on the global supply chain will be hurt by this tax — from electronics manufacturers to toymakers — and the American consumer will be stuck with the tab. Supporters of a border adjustment tax say it levels the playing field for exporters. By allowing profits from foreign sales to be excluded from income taxes, the tax is a countermeasure, they argue, to the value-added taxes that American manufacturers face in other countries. But that’s a fundamental misunderstanding of how a V.A.T. works — it’s a consumption tax on all goods consumed within a country, charged to domestic manufacturers and importers alike. It does not pick winners and losers, or put import-reliant companies at a disadvantage. The tax’s proponents also argue that encouraging domestic consumption — which, put differently, means sending fewer dollars overseas — would drive up the value of the dollar, making imports cheaper and offsetting the higher tax bill. If it were only that easy. Many factors other than trade affect the value of our currency, including interest rate differentials and expectations, geopolitical concerns and domestic policies. A stronger dollar might help a little, but as a business owner, I wouldn’t bet on it. And while encouraging exports in manufacturing is a good idea, a border adjustment tax could have a distorting effect on commodities like oil. America is much less dependent on imported petroleum than in the past, in large part because we produce so much of it at home. A border adjustment tax would encourage domestic oil producers to sell their bounty abroad, where it would be exempt from income taxes. But the imports that would then be required to meet domestic demand would be subject to the tax. Commodities traders will leap at the chance to make money off the difference between the cost of imported and domestic oil; by some estimates, they could drive its price 25 percent higher. We do need corporate and personal tax reform: The tax code is too complex, and compliance is too costly. But a border adjustment tax is not reform. It is a penalty on those industries that rely on imports and have no easy replacement for them. It shifts the costs of corporate tax reform and domestic manufacturing incentives directly onto the backs of American consumers in the form of significantly higher retail prices. Congress and the White House may be pro-business, but a border adjustment tax is anything but.