It was the first time I had seen her since it happened. I arrived at Brooklyn Bridge Park and there, off in the distance, she stood: tall, proud, every bit as elegant as I had left her. Lady Liberty — a.k.a. the Statue of Liberty — has long symbolized the open gates to a land of opportunity, an icon of welcome for immigrants arriving in New York Harbor. After President Trump issued an  executive order on Friday that suspended refugee admissions and blocked citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States, I wanted to check in on her. “Tears are running down the cheeks of the Statue of Liberty tonight,” Senator Charles Schumer of New York, the Democratic minority leader, said on Friday. No doubt many of her admirers were upset, too. So this weekend I went on an expedition to look at Lady Liberty from vantage points around the city. I began at my favorite spot in Brooklyn Bridge Park, where I found Mike Gibson, a resident of the Dumbo neighborhood, doing his weekly tai chi practice alongside his friend Liz McGill. Mr. Gibson said he tends to look to the statue, along with the ferries, the water and the skyline, as a centering, familiar force. A 13th-generation American, Mr. Gibson takes solace, he explained, in the idea that this country has an emblem of freedom and immigration, but no monument to the exclusion of people. But both Mr. Gibson and Ms. McGill said the statue’s constant and steady presence can make it easy to take what it represents as a given. “We take our situation ourselves here for granted, and we can’t anymore,” said Ms. McGill, a British citizen who has a green card. “To be honest, it seems amazing that people put it up in the first place.” From there, I took the A train to Fulton Street in Manhattan. I walked along Broadway down the Canyon of Heroes, where Lady Liberty’s presence was ubiquitous in the form of souvenir trinkets. David Matheis was setting up his vendor stand on the sidewalk when I stopped to chat. Mr. Matheis, who said he served in the United States Army’s 101st Airborne Division, is no supporter of Mr. Trump. But he contended that the country is overburdened with debt and its own domestic problems, so much so that he sees the merit in banning refugees from entering the United States. “It’s a changing time,” he said. “And Miss Liberty, I guess, got to change to some degree.” Next I went down to Battery Park, at the southern tip of Manhattan, and after a quick security check, I boarded a ferry headed for Liberty Island, where Lady Liberty lives. On the boat I met Elizabeth Rodriguez, 31, and her daughter Oneylis Zapata. Ms. Rodriguez, who was born on the United States mainland and spent much of her life in Puerto Rico, was headed to Liberty Island for the first time. She said she had always looked to the statue as a symbol of freedom but worried that the changing face of America might make it impossible for her to raise her daughter here as a single mother. She was getting her sightseeing in while she could. “I’m just visiting whatever I can visit now because in the future I don’t know if I’m going to be here,” she said. Jon Green, who was wearing a crown he’d bought at the concession stand on the boat, was venturing to Liberty Island along with his family and some friends specifically in response to President Trump’s executive order. “America is unique in a lot of ways,” he said. “One of the few ways that actually makes us great is what this symbolizes. It symbolizes being welcoming to all, being a place for sanctuary and refuge. And as those things are under attack, we feel it’s important to honor and recognize and take a little moment to appreciate that. And to teach our kids about what we value.” One of Mr. Green’s friends, Eugene Strupinsky, piped up to tell me that he was a “real-life refugee.” Mr. Strupinsky, who immigrated from Russia in 1990, said that the meaning of the statue hadn’t changed for him, but that he now felt compelled to visit it. “The statue is a symbol,” he said. “My view on the statue doesn’t change. It is a welcoming beacon to all immigrants and refugees. And we are not a serious country without immigrants and refugees.” After we arrived at Liberty Island, I crisscrossed the park there, thinking about what the statue meant to me and trying to make pictures that reflected what she looks and feels like in this time and place. I climbed the 200-some steps to the pedestal on which Lady Liberty stands, where I met Rachel Jennings and Shilpa Anturkar, who were visiting from Chicago. They, too, were moved to visit the statue because of the political events of the past few days. “Maybe the president can come on back to New York,” Ms. Jennings said. “I mean, he calls New York his home. Maybe he can come back and take a moment and — don’t take it for granted — take a look at the Statue of Liberty.” Ms. Anturkar grew teary as she talked about how her perception of Lady Liberty had changed. “Before, when I used to come to New York and we’d take the ferry and see the Statue of Liberty it was more of a happy, proud and touristy feeling,” she said. “But it just symbolizes so much more today and over the past couple of weeks. And now it’s a humbling and sad feeling mixed in with the pride of what our country actually should stand for.” On the ferry ride back, as the boat approached Battery Park, I could hear a mass of protesters voicing opposition to the executive order. Morgan Jenness was there, clutching a makeshift torch and reciting Emma Lazarus’s sonnet “The New Colossus,” which is inscribed on Lady Liberty’s pedestal: Give me your tired, your poor,Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me,I lift my lamp beside the golden door! “Not,” Ms. Jenness stressed, “the closed door.” I sensed that Ms. Jenness was an aficionado of all things Lady Liberty. So, I had to ask, had her view of the statue changed? “I feel it’s tarnished,” she said. “We’ve tarnished it.” Could it be cleaned up, I wondered? “It can,” she said, standing amid a cheering crowd of protesters. “We’ve got a lot of people, with a lot of rags.”