HOUSTON — How are ya’all doin’?” the Super Bowl 2017 volunteer in a red T-shirt asked me and my husband, with all the concern of an anxious host giving a first dinner party. The man was tall and thin, with a hint of hard times behind his toothy smile, but like the 9,999 other volunteers recruited to help out during the big game here in Houston, he was giving it his all. The downtown park Discovery Green had been converted to ground zero, a.k.a. Super Bowl Live, for nine days before the game. The volunteers had the job of making the public feel welcome while helping us navigate “free and family-friendly” events that included a Solange concert, selfie-ready Astronaut suits and food trucks offering everything from Maine lobster rolls to hot dogs with Wasabi mayo and bonito flakes. The city’s motto ought to be “See, we aren’t who you thought we were.” Houston’s latest iteration of the Texas compulsion to show off was making me dizzy. I started avoiding eye contact with anyone who might look professionally helpful. The Super Bowl brings out what’s splashiest in the identities of its host cities, and my adopted hometown is not about to stint on its third go-round at showing its best face to the world. The occasion provides a seductive combo of the three things Houstonians love most: Houston, football and high-value commerce. So, it’s to be expected that the place would go a little crazy, particularly since the Dallas Cowboys were eliminated from the playoffs. It isn’t that folks here hate the Cowboys — well, not all folks — so much as they hated the idea of fans from a nearby city who would stay for shorter periods and spend less money. With all the hoopla already, the game between the Falcons and the Patriots on Sunday seems almost a secondary consideration. In previous years, Houston had a lot to transcend. Few may recall our first Super Bowl experience back in 1974: the Vikings versus the Dolphins. That event didn’t do much for the city, what with Hunter S. Thompson’s complaining that he had been in town for eight days without being offered cocaine. Our second host experience, in 2004, the Panthers versus the Patriots, fared better. As city fathers prayed to the N.F.L. gods, we built a brand-new stadium that dwarfed the Astrodome, and laid 7.5 miles of light-rail track — a new form of public transportation for Houston, which went from downtown to Reliant (now N.R.G.) Stadium, the stops at the Museum of Fine Arts and the Texas Medical Center almost an afterthought. Sadly, a lot of that effort was wasted thanks to the furor over the “wardrobe malfunction” presented at halftime by Janet Jackson and Justin Timberlake. So, here we are again. The seconds are now numbered for the blindingly lit, supersized football-shaped countdown clock that has been competing with the upscale public art at Discovery Green since last May. In conscious and unconscious ways, the city seems to be using the opportunity to strike a good balance between its past and its future. In other words, Houston is transitioning away from all that urban-cowboy, concrete-wasteland stuff and into a multiethnic, multicultural, multi-gendered metropolis. Forget the Astrodome. Civic leaders have long argued over what to do with the mothballed midcentury behemoth, which was finally awarded landmark status last week by the Texas Historical Commission. But with its inconvenient situation, right next to N.R.G., the world’s first covered stadium has mostly been treated like an embarrassing uncle by local Super Bowl boosters. Admittedly, since the last Houston Super Bowl, that area of town has remained, well, concrete wastelandish. Thus it made sense to locate most of the action downtown, where even the dreary postmodern George R. Brown Convention Center has enjoyed a face-lift Cher would envy. Houston’s long ambivalence toward street life is weakening, and downtown, several new restaurants look primed for success with the sponsorship of nationally known locals like the chef Hugo Ortega, a James Beard Award nominee for his authentic “Mex-Mex” cuisine, the Astros Hall of Famer Craig Biggio and the “Billion Dollar Buyer” host Tilman Fertitta. And no matter how much things have changed here, the food still has that more-is-more ethos. Yes, you can get a Tex-Mex chicken taco, but why not try a Thai-male instead! Or a quesadilla with kimchi! It’s the same with the music: I’m happy to hear from the Suffers and Grupo Fantasma, though I’m not so sure about the Feel Rich Fitness Concert. Houston’s fashion crowd also stepped up. A “Project Runway” winner, Chloe Dao, is showing her wares at a pop-up shop downtown with other local designers. No news yet of a Beyoncé Baby Boutique (with twofer deals!). The local website CultureMap suggested that Super Bowl party wear should include “sophisticated sass with a Texas twist.” One accompanying photo featured Coach’s new Western-themed collection, which could best be described as Post-Apocalyptic Rodeo Queen. Even former President George H. W. Bush is doing his part. In spite of a recent hospital stay, he’s planning to show up for the coin toss on Sunday. No one can say Houston doesn’t know how to hold a party.