For all the potential excitement of this year’s Super Bowl — Tom Brady’s chance to stick it to the N.F.L. commissioner, Roger Goodell, for his “Deflategate” suspension; Atlanta’s attempt to win only its second sports championship in 60 years; the dawning realization that the New England Patriots’ evil mastermind Bill Belichick bears a difficult-to-ignore resemblance to President Trump’s evil mastermind Stephen K. Bannon — it must be noted that this has not been the most thrilling N.F.L. postseason. Both conference championship games were blowouts, and in that respect they followed the lead of the rest of the playoff games: The average margin of victory has been 15.7 points, the largest in 14 years. So it’s only natural that fans are hoping the Super Bowl will be a nail-biter. Even if you’re not a big sports fan and this is the one football game you’ll watch this year — showing up at your friend’s party, clam dip in hand, a little confused about who’s playing but still full of opinions about Colin Kaepernick — you know you want a good game. You want it to be close. Well, allow this sports nut to politely suggest: You don’t really want that. We all think we want a game that goes down to the wire. But those games offer only short-term, temporary satisfaction. The Super Bowl determines our champions, shapes our legends, sets our benchmarks for greatness. Which is why there is much pleasure to be had — and a deeper satisfaction to be gained — in the blowout. Life is confusing and uncertain. The blowout gives us something definitive. The blowout gives us an answer. When you think of the all-time great N.F.L. teams, you don’t think of the 2012 Baltimore Ravens, who managed to sneak by the San Francisco 49ers in Super Bowl XLVII. You don’t think of the 2008 Pittsburgh Steelers, who edged out the Arizona Cardinals on the tiptoes of Santonio Holmes’s touchdown catch in the final seconds of Super Bowl XLIII. You don’t get excited by the memory of the 2006 Indianapolis Colts stumbling around and somehow outlasting the Chicago Bears. Those were pedestrian teams matched against other pedestrian teams. Their fans might care about those victories, but the rest of us don’t. We care about dominance. When you close your eyes and think of a Super Bowl champion, you don’t think of Joe Flacco. You think of Joe Montana and Troy Aikman. You think of the 1985 “Super Bowl Shuffle” Chicago Bears. You think of pure, unadulterated destruction. Those were the Super Bowls that locked themselves into our memory, those ritualistic vivisections of far lesser teams. In the case of a blowout, a great team is no longer being judged against its peers, for a great team has no peers. It is being judged against history. Take the 1989 San Francisco 49ers, starring Montana and Jerry Rice. Heading into Super Bowl XXIV, they were favored by 13.5 points and considered one of the best teams of all time. Let’s be honest: They weren’t playing the Denver Broncos in that game; they were playing themselves. Their only real test was whether they could win by more points than any other Super Bowl champion … and they did precisely that, obliterating the Broncos, 55-10. All teams are now judged against those 49ers. They live on, nearly three decades later. This is why the high-octane, high-scoring 1999 St. Louis Rams, branded during their Super Bowl run as the “greatest show on turf,” are now seen more as a novelty act than an all-time great. In Super Bowl XXXIV, they barely held off the Tennessee Titans, tackling the wide receiver Kevin Dyson on the final play of the game, stopping him an arm’s-length short of the end zone. Thus: good game. Fun team. But the Super Bowl revealed those Rams to be mere mortals. We don’t want our champions to be mortals. The N.F.L. in recent years has been praised for its parity, for the roughly equal talents of its teams. But too much parity can feel like mediocrity. So it would behoove the Patriots this year to wipe out the Atlanta Falcons by a larger margin than the current three-point spread. The Patriots have plowed through the N.F.L. with little resistance this season — even doing so with a third-string quarterback when necessary. But if they want to rank alongside those 49ers or Aikman’s Cowboys (52-17 over the Bills in Super Bowl XXVII), they’re going to need to blow out the Falcons. Say it with me: Parity is not clarity. There is another consideration. A blowout makes it unlikely that the game will be decided by a controversial pass-interference or holding penalty. The game won’t turn, as too many games do, on a fluke. The last thing we need is another flubbed call, another Don Denkinger incident. And that’s just it, isn’t it? We want our answer. The world is chaotic, and terrifying, and befuddling, and uncertain. What is just and right? What is truth? Which facts are alternative, and which ones are, well, facts? Everything is so gray. A blowout leaves no room for shading. A blowout answers every question. No one can tell us our eyes are deceiving us. No one can say he was cheated. No one can claim anything other than, “Yep, that team is absolutely better.” This is calming. This is proof that there is order in the world. These are uncertain times, and we must seek assurance where we can. In your blowout, may you find your peace.