WASHINGTON — In the summer of 2014, the Islamic State seized a region of northern Iraq where people of different religions and ethnic groups had coexisted since biblical times, and sought to cleanse it of everyone who was not a Sunni Muslim. ISIS killed or enslaved thousands of Yazidis and massacred Shiite Muslims. The group readily admitted that it wanted to eradicate Christianity from the Middle East. In a matter of days, more than 100,000 Iraqi Christians had fled their homes, mostly to Iraqi Kurdistan. Last year, as an official of the Obama administration, I walked through a Christian neighborhood of the Kurdish capital, Erbil, to the beautiful St. Joseph’s cathedral, where I met with leaders of every major Christian denomination in Iraq, including the patriarch of the Assyrian Church of the East and the archbishop of the Chaldean Catholic Church. I also visited the Yazidi mountain shrine of Lalish, and the town of Alqosh, just a few miles north of Islamic State-controlled Mosul, where a synagogue still stands, unused for now, but protected by a local Christian family and the Muslim fighters of the Kurdish pesh merga. Every religious leader I met asked that the United States keep the door open to refugees from their communities. But what they wanted most of all was our help in enabling their people to stay safe on their ancestral lands in Iraq. One group, the Assyrian Church of the East, felt so strongly about this that it made the brave decision to move its headquarters from Chicago back to Erbil. I would never say that we have done enough to help persecuted religious minorities in the Middle East. How could anyone say they have done enough when so many are still suffering? But to suggest, as the Trump administration now does, that the United States has done nothing, and use this falsehood to justify favoring Christians over others among our refugee admissions, is outrageous. (On Friday, a federal judge temporarily blocked parts of the president’s executive order, including this element.) The first shots the United States fired in its fight with the Islamic State were to protect a religious minority: the Yazidis on Mount Sinjar, in northern Iraq. And we did so within days of their first call for help in 2014. From then on, we were determined to use American air power to protect civilians in the extremists’ path wherever we could. When the Islamic State attacked Christian villages in the Khabur River Valley of eastern Syria in early 2015, it was our airstrikes, guided by information provided by local Christian communities, that stopped the terrorists’ advance. Since then, United States Special Operations forces have trained Christian self-defense militias that operate under Iraqi government authority. We have provided millions of dollars in humanitarian assistance to religious minority communities. And last year, Secretary of State John Kerry recognized Iraqi Yazidis, Shiites and Christians as victims of genocide. The decision took longer than some had hoped, because State Department legal experts initially told Mr. Kerry that there was not enough evidence to include Christians in this determination; he insisted on taking the time to gather the additional evidence. Contrary to what President Trump has suggested, more than 40 percent of the refugees the United States has admitted from Iraq have been Christians or members of other religious minority groups. This was based on need, without setting any religious test. It is true that very few Christians are among the refugees we’ve admitted from Syria, because most Syrian refugees are Sunni Muslims who have fled the Assad regime. Syrian Christians have tended to seek protection in regime-controlled areas; of those who have left Syria, a majority have gone to Lebanon, where they have support from friends, family and a large Christian community. Here is what Mr. Trump does not want you to know: Under his executive order, actually fewer Christian refugees will make it to the United States, even allowing for his preference for religious minorities. That is because the order slashes the quota for worldwide refugee admissions for 2017 to about 50,000 from 110,000 — and this part of the order stays in place despite Friday’s court ruling. Last year, 44 percent of admitted refugees overall happened to be Christians; at that rate, we could have expected to admit 48,000 this year. Having now cut the global quota to 50,000, the president would have to bar almost all Muslims and other non-Christians just to keep the admissions of Christian refugees at the same level — something that he swears he won’t do, and that the courts clearly won’t allow. Instead, America will reject more desperate refugees from every faith and from all over the world. Meanwhile, the perception that Mr. Trump’s order has created — that the United States favors Christian over Muslim victims of terrorism — will inflame tensions with Muslim-majority nations and hinder cooperation with countries like Iraq. That will actually make it harder for the United States to promote the rights of the hundreds of thousands of Christians and other minorities who want to stay in their homelands. Of the religious leaders I met in Iraq last year, not one ever asked that we give his community preferential treatment over another. One of the Christian bishops told me that as much as his people had suffered, the Yazidis had suffered even more, and he urged us to keep helping everyone. Last week, Iraq’s Catholic Chaldean patriarch denounced Mr. Trump’s order as “a trap” that would “feed tensions with our Muslim fellow citizens,” adding: “Those who seek help do not need to be divided according to religious labels. And we do not want privileges.” The executive order will make it harder for Christians and other victims of the Islamic State to leave the Middle East, and make life more dangerous for those who stay. Anyone with an ounce of compassion or common sense will urge the president to revoke his order or Congress to repeal it.