AMHERST, Mass. — President Trump’s first weeks in office left a majority of Americans appalled. With his “alternative facts,” his scapegoating of foreigners and international trade, and his barrage of executive orders, Mr. Trump confirmed what the opposition had feared: that he will run the country like a populist autocrat and paranoid protectionist. His opponents are feeling a sense of impotence. As they watch the bulk of the Republican Party, the only party that counts in the new America, stand up against nothing that Mr. Trump is proposing, the Democrats feel desolate. Many Democrats fear that Trumpism cannot be stopped. This fear is not ungrounded. Nationalist, populist-autocratic rule is an aggressive form of cancer that is not easy to halt. It emerges in democracies and then uses democratic institutions to metastasize. The very same principles and institutions that permit the outsiders to challenge the establishment — especially free speech, internally competitive political parties and laws — soon become the targets of the autocrat once in office. That is the danger of this political cancer: It undermines the very same institutions it uses for its rise, thus blocking future challengers. After the 2016 election, the Democrats were left without control of any significant institutions. They are a minority in Congress and a minority in most state legislatures. Soon the bureaucracy and the courts will be filled with more Trumpites. The most famous bipartisan democracy in the world, with Mr. Trump at the top, is turning into a one-party state. Populist authoritarianism in the context of one-party rule will not be contained easily, let alone defeated. Democrats naturally will try many strategies, many of them contradictory. They will try to use the press to embarrass officials on TV by catching them lying; other times they will refuse to invite Mr. Trump’s officials to talk. They will engage in fiery debates with Trump supporters; other times they will try being more civil. They will try to negotiate with the government; other times they will be obstructionist. They will sign petitions and they will march; other times they will stay quiet to avoid drawing attention. They will denounce the government on social media; other times they will post about things other than politics to avoid dwelling on their misery. Chances are many of these tactics, however disparate, will not show results right away. The problem is not that these strategies are wrong or ill conceived. The problem is that the cancer that these strategies are trying to fight is aggressive, adaptable and difficult to beat. And yet, I still feel there is hope. Compared with other places where populist autocrats have taken power, the United States has a resistance with at least five important advantages it can exploit in its fight against Trumpism: THE OPPOSITION IS NOT CONFUSED. In other countries, like Venezuela after the ascent of Hugo Chávez, the rise of populist autocrats makes some people feel at first that things won’t be so bad after all — they give the leader the benefit of the doubt. This is fantastic for the autocrat. But this is not happening in the United States. Almost no one who voted for someone other than Mr. Trump appears to be under that kind of delusion. They know what’s coming, and they know it’s not good. THE OPPOSITION IS NOT DEMORALIZED. In many countries, like Russia at the start of the Vladimir Putin era, populist autocrats rise in the context of a major crisis that was mishandled by politicians. Thus, populists rise against the backdrop of a political class that has lost its legitimacy. But in the United States, the defeated party, the Democrats, have nothing to be ashamed of in their time in office, and they won the popular vote. The tendency of voters to defect from the opposition, and even worse, to abstain from politics — so strong in eras of rising populism — does not seem to exist in America. For now, the opposition is energized. THE OPPOSITION IS NOT FRAGMENTED. There are huge divisions within the opposition to Mr. Trump, of course. But political scientists make a distinction between divisions and party fragmentation. There is no more fertile ground for the consolidation of populist autocrats than party fragmentation. Because of the country’s winner-takes-all electoral system, there are minimal incentives for opposition parties in the United States to split. This is an asset. THE OPPOSITION IS NOT ALONE. The Democratic Party has strong allies: social movements. Populist autocracy tends to rise when the opposition party and civic movements are weak, or both are strong but hate each other. None of this is happening in the United States. On the contrary, the opposition includes robust civic groups that are comfortable working with the Democratic Party. This is vital. Fighting populist autocracy requires party-movement collaboration: Parties need movements to help to mobilize opinion, and movements need parties to strategize about legislative priorities and elections. As long as this collaboration endures, the opposition will be able to deflect many of the assaults coming from the Trump administration. THE OPPOSITION WON’T BE BLAMED. We’ve all seen the figures. In terms of offices held nationally and at the state level, the Democrats have been decimated. But here’s the good news. When the economy falters, as it typically does under protectionist populism, Democrats will not be blamed easily. They will not have been co-governing. I’m not being a Pollyanna. My point is simply that, comparatively speaking, there is hope. Trumpism can be contained, and yes, defeated electorally. There will be many setbacks along the way. But the opposition should remember that setbacks will not necessarily be the result of problems with the treatment, but with the aggressive cancer it is fighting. The challenge is to not lose hope or engage in excessive self-blame, but to persevere and experiment — because leaving this cancer untreated is the worst treatment.