Gail Collins: Ben, welcome. It’s been a long time since I conversed with anybody who wasn’t named Brooks. Ben Domenech: Great to join you, Gail, and thank you for inviting me in as a guest interlocutor. I may lack the refined Brooksian detachment, but I hope I can make up for it with “Calvin and Hobbes” references. Gail: Before we get into politics, tell me about your magazine, The Federalist. Ben: The Federalist is a web magazine of culture and politics that I co-founded with Sean Davis. We chose our name because our writers, whatever their ideology, believe in the constitutional system of Madison, Hamilton and Jay, which recognizes the ability of the people to govern themselves. Besides being its publisher, I host our daily radio show in the form of a podcast and write our main newsletter, The Transom. Gail: You get multimedia stars. Once again I’m feeling guilty about the fact that I’m still a Twitter virgin. Anything else we should know before I point you right toward Donald Trump? Ben: We feature all sorts of contrarian opinions, particularly about the media, and have contributors who favored Trump and others who favored Hillary Clinton. A majority of our staff is female, our readership skews female compared to other political sites, and we credit that to our editorial tone and our focus on cultural issues like sex, childrearing and political correctness, not just dry policy. Writing about these topics in a time as fractured and tribal as the present day is a challenge, but I think our current cultural clashes are too important to ignore. Gail: Well, we’re definitely opposed to anything dry. Let’s get right to the man of the hour. Tell me two or three things you like about the new Trump administration. Ben: The selection of Neil Gorsuch is the most encouraging decision to come out of the early days of the Trump administration, and the choice should be encouraging even to President Trump’s opponents. Gail: I am envisioning anti-Trump readers out there, jumping up and down and shaking their fists. But go ahead. Ben: Gorsuch is no flippant choice — he is highly qualified, well educated, and while his record leans conservative, he is actually less deferential to police officers and government agencies in his decisions compared to Merrick Garland. So if you care about civil liberties and Fourth Amendment issues — as many people, right and left, do – Gorsuch is better even than Antonin Scalia. Gail: When you said “better even than Antonin Scalia,” the people hopping up and down clutched their hearts and fainted. But seriously, Ben. You just mentioned your focus on women’s issues. Here’s a guy who reduced women’s ability to get contraceptives covered by their employee health insurance in the Hobby Lobby ruling. And it’s pretty clear, reading his history, that Gorsuch is no friend of abortion rights. Ben: When I say better, I mean the hoppers would see his positions as better, too! Trump could’ve gone with someone who doesn’t have a libertarian record on free speech, privacy and invasive actions by police, but instead he picked someone who is unlikely to be a rubber stamp for authoritarian aspects of his agenda. Remember Harriet Miers? Or perhaps it’s enough that he didn’t pick Judge Judy? Gail: When I think of the right to privacy, I’d include a woman’s right to make her own private decision on whether or not she wants to be pregnant. It’s always interested me that so many Republican libertarians — I am thinking right now of Rand Paul — are perfectly happy to give the government the right to get between a woman and her doctor when it comes to abortion. Ben: Well, we certainly didn’t take long to get into the fray! Classical liberals, in the original sense of the term, who are sympathetic to contemporary libertarianism, like Rand Paul, Justin Amash and The Federalist’s own Mollie Hemingway, oppose unrestricted abortion because of their interpretation of the non-aggression principle. Lockean in origin, this principle holds that no one can commit violence against another except in self-defense, and they view abortion as an act of violence. Pro-lifers believe every child has a right to be born. And most believe the government has a role in protecting that right. As for Gorsuch and the issue of requiring every employer to fund the provision of birth control, the Supreme Court unanimously vacated all the Little Sisters of the Poor lower court decisions, which held that they had to provide such services. So his record on that issue, while conservative, is not outside the legal mainstream. Gail: This is a total aside, but I’ve always wondered if the anti-contraception case had been brought by, say, the Maryknolls, the decision would have been less sweeping. Nobody wants to be mean to Little Sisters of the Poor. But getting back to your favorite Trump administration moves. What’s number two? Ben: It might surprise you to learn that the other encouraging aspect of it for me is in the opposition Trump has received, and a growing appreciation for federalism and localism. The protesters engaging in violence, like the ones at U.C. Berkeley, are obviously unhealthy. But underneath it all, many of my moderate and liberal friends have woken up to something that has been troubling for me for a decade and a half: the increasing centralization of power in the presidency. Gail: This is the moment when I note that virtually no one in the anti-Trump ranks is calling for violence. Go on about the centralization of power. Ben: We shouldn’t care as much about the presidency as we do. The imperial presidency expanded under George W. Bush, and Barack Obama ended up giving Donald Trump far more levers of power than many people would like. It’s a reminder that citizens should never invest powers in government that you would not want held by your worst enemy. I like things locally grown, particularly government. Gail: There were moments in the Obama presidency when I thought, “Wow, all these executive actions may not set the greatest precedent.” But here’s the thing: Ever since the rise of the Tea Party — actually, ever since the rise of Speaker Newt Gingrich — there’s been a collapse of Congress’s ability to do anything. So eventually, a frustrated president will act around them. If you didn’t like the Obama executive order on immigration, blame it on the people who torpedoed the bipartisan work on a congressional immigration reform bill. Ben: You’re right about Congress not doing its job. But I’d argue that it goes back even earlier — we’ve basically had more than half a century of Congress ceding power, often in their own political self-interest. They’ve purposefully made themselves political eunuchs. Think about it this way: As a member of Congress, it’s a lot easier to direct a bureaucratic agency to make a rule instead of making it yourself. Then, if the rule hurts a constituent, you can write angry letters and hold hearings and generally go all Foghorn Leghorn, and you don’t get the blame. You just told them to write a rule, after all. Members of Congress do this constantly to protect themselves from criticism, and the result is they have vastly diminished their ability to represent us as the first branch of government. Gail: When it comes to actual spending, I agree with you. It’s very interesting to watch conservatives who rail against federal spending throw themselves in front of any bill that eliminates money for something in their district. You know, this is the burden of fiscal conservatism. Cost-cutters always wind up looking like hypocrites, while liberals just naturally seem consistent. Ben: Well, they’re consistent in their hypocrisy! Chesterton was right: “The business of progressives is to go on making mistakes. The business of conservatives is to prevent mistakes from being corrected.” Gail: I’d be extremely wealthy if I had a dollar for every member of Congress who railed against the Environmental Protection Agency and then added the caveat: “But of course we want clean air and water…” You don’t get clean air and water without government rules. Ben, I’ve made you list the things you like about Early Trump. What turns you off? Ben: One thing that is not encouraging is how poorly our media is adapting to the moment. Gail: I want to register a protest that the one bad thing is our fault. But go on. Ben: I have a theory about this: It is that we have a president who has been very famous for a very long time, which is a rarity historically. It causes everyone to view his decisions through a Trumpian lens. As Gabriel García Márquez said, “The problem is that you’re famous for 24 hours a day” — so everything every day takes on the appearance of being unique to Trump, when it’s oftentimes business as usual. Gail: Although the business frequently seems to be conducted in a uniquely weird way. Ben: Weird for presidents, yes, but not weird for Trump. I’d point to multiple instances where a journalist will cite something as an act of Trump, when it turns out the Obama administration did pretty much the same thing. See, for example, the stories about having more business with the Russian FSB, or changing the name of Black History Month, or displaying just Trump books in the library. This has the defect of constant blaring klaxons announcing “Breaking news” to learn later that it was unimportant. The point being, Trump’s tenure is going to be odd enough. Let’s not make it stranger than it already is. Gail: On this, we are in accord. And I will not even throw in a snarky comment about how it couldn’t be stranger unless the White House issued an announcement that for security reasons, all federal employees will be required to come to work naked. Ben: It would mean fewer bureaucrats and an incentive for them to get in shape! People would eat healthier, more people would telecommute, DC’s SoulCycle businesses would love it. I don’t see the problem. Gail: See, in this administration, you have to be very careful with the use of humor. Your jokes can wind up as federal policy.