The modern-day vice president serves primarily as a close presidential adviser and assistant. The vice president’s move from Capitol Hill to the White House has allowed the office to become a significant institution. But this week, Mike Pence reminded Americans of an older role the vice president also sometimes serves: that of legislative officer who can preside over the Senate. Vice President Pence on Tuesday saved the administration and Betsy DeVos, President Trump’s nominee for secretary of education, from an embarrassing defeat. It was a historic moment: None of Mr. Pence’s 47 predecessors has ever cast a tiebreaking vote to install a cabinet officer over the opposition of 50 percent of the Senate. The close split in the Senate and controversial nature of the DeVos nomination gave Mr. Pence this unique opportunity on Day 18 of his vice presidency. By contrast, his predecessor, Joseph R. Biden Jr., served 2,922 days in the nation’s second office (after having been elected to seven terms in the Senate) without getting to break a single Senate tie. Mr. Biden was one of only 12 vice presidents not to break a tie of any sort. The tiebreaking performances of some vice presidents contributed to the familiar lore disparaging the second office. Vice President John C. Calhoun cast the decisive vote to defeat President Andrew Jackson’s nomination of his close ally, Martin Van Buren, to be ambassador to Britain in 1832. The setback to Van Buren’s career was only temporary; the following year he replaced Calhoun as Jackson’s vice president and, four years later, became president. Charles G. Dawes began his vice presidency in March 1925 by alienating the Senate with an Inauguration Day lecture criticizing its rules. Less than a week into his vice presidency, he was napping in his hotel room when the Senate deadlocked on President Calvin Coolidge’s nomination of Charles Warren to be his attorney general. By the time Dawes arrived to break the tie, a vote had shifted against Warren, defeating the nomination, leaving Dawes embarrassed and Pence with the history-making honor he achieved Tuesday. The close party division in the Senate and the controversy over some other presidential nominations may give Vice President Pence other opportunities to break Senate ties. In fact, some of his recent predecessors, like Dick Cheney (8), Al Gore (4) and George H.W. Bush (7) cast decisive votes, in some instances on important matters. The close association between the president and the vice president now effectively allows the administration to prevail in the Senate if it can produce an even split. The Constitution confers the vice president’s power to break Senate ties. And Mr. Pence, and his successors, can be expected to exercise that prerogative when it serves the administration’s interests. Ultimately, Mr. Pence’s importance will turn on his ability to serve as a presidential adviser and operator. That new definition of the office began with the vice presidency of Walter F. Mondale and continued during the next five presidencies as Mr. Bush, Dan Quayle, Mr. Gore, Mr. Cheney and Mr. Biden acted as close presidential counselors and assistants. Six presidents, evenly divided between the two parties, have followed this new vice-presidential model because they have seen the value an able adviser and operator can provide. Whether Vice President Pence achieves similar success will depend on President Trump’s willingness to continue to follow this new model (as he so far seems inclined to do), the continuing relationship between Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence and the vice president’s skill in handling his duties. Those are questions for the future.