Was there a woman who didn’t recognize herself in the specter of Elizabeth Warren silenced by a roomful of men? The explosion of indignation, mockery and free publicity that greeted Tuesday night’s move to prevent Senator Warren from reading a letter about Senator Jeff Sessions written by Coretta Scott King resonates with so many women precisely because they have been there, over and over again. At a meeting where you speak up, only to be cut off by a man. Where your ideas are ignored until a man repeats them and then they are pure genius — or, simply, acknowledged. Being interrupted or ignored, and being one of the few women in the room, can be both inhibiting and enraging. You check your own perception: Was I being too aggressive, or did I really have a point? Is this about being a woman, or something else? Raising questions of a double standard, male Democratic senators including Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Jeff Merkley of Oregon later read into the record the very same letter that Senator Warren was reading when the Senate voted, along strict party lines, to ban her from further debate on the nomination of Mr. Sessions as attorney general. The firestorm came as liberal women have placed themselves in the vanguard of opposition to the administration of President Trump. Casting him as anti-woman, they cite the infamous “Access Hollywood” tape, when Mr. Trump boasted of forcing himself on women; his comments that women who criticized him were ugly and overweight; a cabinet with four women in a sea of men; and policies including restricting access to abortion and contraception. A report on the website  Axios that Mr. Trump wants his female staff members to “dress like women” — whatever that is supposed to mean — inspired a separate round of Twitter mockery, with posts of female soldiers, astronauts and firefighters. Yet talking over women, or shutting them down, is a bipartisan exercise. During the Obama administration, women in the White House banded together to work on “amplification,” taking care in meetings to repeat other women’s points and give women credit for ideas they had first raised. Loren DeJonge Schulman, who worked 10 years at the Department of Defense and the National Security Council in the Obama administration, has vivid memories of watching men bridle as senior women challenged them. “The constant allegation from the Department of Defense was that the National Security Council was micromanaging them,” said Ms. Schulman, now a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security. “Is it really micromanagement, or are you complaining about women nagging?” The unpalatable truth is that women encounter this behavior in most professions. It often comes from well-intentioned men who are horrified when it is pointed out or oblivious when it is going on, as well as those who are less enlightened. Indeed, Senator Mitch McConnell’s condescending defense of the vote to silence Senator Warren prompted the creation of a social media meme and new rallying cry: “She was warned. She was given an explanation. Nevertheless, she persisted.” Under the hashtag #shepersisted, women posted pictures of their own personal heroines from Coretta Scott King to Rosa Parks, Margaret Sanger and Ruby Bridges, who integrated her elementary school in New Orleans. Elizabeth Warren is no shrinking violet, and she clearly won this skirmish, if not her larger battle to stop the confirmation of Senator Sessions. Most women have learned how to shrug these episodes off and muster to fight again. Unfortunately, research suggests that they too often pay a price, being labeled too aggressive. Tuesday night was another reminder, as if many women needed it, that speaking up remains an arduous and necessary task.