This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. It’s a kind of Marshall Plan for the 21st century, and it’s called the Silk Road initiative. This time, though, the benefactor isn’t the United States. It is China. The Chinese government is financing and subsidizing $1 trillion in spending, mostly in low-income countries around the world. The initiative includes the creation of a modern rail network for Africa, intended to “transform the way Africans travel and do business with one another,” as Andrew Jacobs of The Times reported from Djibouti this week. To see some of the joy that’s resulted from the opening of new train lines, watch the video that accompanies the story. It’s a wonderful development in many ways. It’s also a reminder of China’s rising strategic challenge to the United States. The Silk Road initiative gives China influence in, and access to, a huge continent — one with growing economies and geopolitically important spots, like Djibouti. And the United States? Our country is not exactly in the midst of a sustained campaign of reaching out to the rest of the world. Our government has just scrapped a trade deal with Asia and is trying to ban many Muslims from entering this country. The Trump administration has signaled that it also may soon cut back on humanitarian aid to Africa. On today’s Op-Ed page, Bill Frist, the former Republican Senate leader, makes an urgent plea for continuing the Pepfar program. A program that George W. Bush personally helped to push, it has saved many, many lives in Africa through improved AIDS treatment. But more than one million Africans still die every year from AIDS, many because of lack of access to treatment. President Trump and some close aides have spoken favorably about Pepfar, but the administration has also raised questions about its “massive” [sic] cost. The overwhelming reason to continue Pepfar is humanitarian. Yet it has the ancillary benefit of promoting American interests on a continent where our main rival for global influence is very active. As Frist writes: “Pepfar is the greatest humanitarian effort undertaken by the United States in more than 60 years. But it also makes us safer by making afflicted countries stronger, more stable and more grateful to us.”