The 2016 election deepened the chasm between those voters who believe that the government should address the problems of the poor and those who are convinced that the government already provides disadvantaged minorities with too much help, at the expense of the white working and middle classes. While the polarized belief systems that exploded in the battle between Trump and Clinton are driving both policymaking and an invigorated opposition, researchers continue to provide empirical evidence on the difficult issues of race, poverty and intergenerational mobility. Rucker C. Johnson, a professor of public policy at the University of California, Berkeley, has followed two generations of black families and concluded that integration has been an effective tool for raising educational levels and living standards. “Equal opportunity education policies generally are motivated to try to break the cycle of poverty, to break the vicious cycle of disadvantage from one generation to the next, and create a virtuous cycle where being born poor isn’t a life sentence,” Johnson told the annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association in 2016. “We have a very rare opportunity where a major intervention” — desegregation — “has been shown to be very effective on one generation’s lifetime outcomes, and then to be able to show that those beneficial effects extend into the next generation – particularly the black children whose parents went to desegregated schools.” Separate research published in 2015 by Johnson, C. Kirabo Jackson, an economist at Northwestern, and Claudia Persico, an economist at the University of Wisconsin, found that a 10 percent increase in per-pupil spending each year for all twelve years of public school leads to 0.27 more completed years of education, 7.25 percent higher wages, and a 3.67 percentage-point reduction in the annual incidence of adult poverty; effects are much more pronounced for children from low-income families. At the same time, Richard Reeves, a senior fellow at Brookings, and Dimitrios Halikias, a research assistant, tackled one of the most vexing issues in education in their February 2017 Brookings paper, “Race Gaps in SAT Scores Highlight Inequality and Hinder Upward Mobility.” “Race gaps on the SATs are especially pronounced at the tails of the distribution,” the two authors note. In math, for example, among top scorers — those scoring between a 750 and 800 — 60 percent are Asian and 33 percent are white, compared to 5 percent Latino and 2 percent black. Meanwhile, among those scoring between 300 and 350, 37 percent are Latino, 35 percent are black, 21 percent are white, and 6 percent are Asian. Translating those percentages into concrete numbers, Reeves and Halikias estimate that in the entire country last year at most 2,200 black and 4,900 Latino test-takers scored above a 700. In comparison, roughly 48,000 whites and 52,800 Asians scored that high. The same absolute disparity persists among the highest scorers: 16,000 whites and 29,570 Asians scored above a 750, compared to only at most 1,000 blacks and 2,400 Latinos. While the numbers Reeves and Halikias report are bleak, there are findings that suggest that these gaps can be ameliorated. Raj Chetty and Nathaniel Hendren, economists at Stanford and Harvard, have studied a sample of more than seven million families who moved “across commuting zones in the U.S.” to determine how moving to a better or a worse neighborhood affected children. Their December 2016 NBER study, “The Impacts of Neighborhoods on Intergenerational Mobility I and II,” involved a much larger population than the widely publicized “Moving to Opportunity” research, and was designed to address some of the statistical questions raised about the earlier work. In the December study, Chetty and Hendren found that neighborhoods have substantial childhood exposure effects: every additional year of childhood spent in a better environment improves a child’s long-term outcomes. Why is this? First, place matters for intergenerational mobility: the differences we see in outcomes across neighborhoods are largely due to the causal effect of places rather than differences in the characteristics of their residents. Second, place matters for intergenerational mobility largely through differences in childhood environment, rather than the differences in labor market conditions that have received attention in previous studies of place. Third, Chetty and Hendren report that contrary to conventional wisdom each year of childhood exposure matters roughly equally; there is no “critical age” after which the marginal returns to being in a better neighborhood fall sharply. The two economists found a significant gain for every year a child spent in the improved neighborhood, suggesting that by the age of 20 children who move to a new area at birth will pick up roughly 80% of the difference in permanent residents’ outcomes between their origin and destination. In addition, they found childhood exposure effects of a similar magnitude for several other outcomes, including rates of college attendance, teenage employment, teenage birth, and marriage. These results, Chetty and Hendren argue, motivate place-based approaches to improving economic mobility, such as making investments to improve opportunity in areas that currently have low levels of mobility or helping families move to higher opportunity areas using targeted housing vouchers. Another significant finding by academic researchers is that segregation, especially neighborhood segregation, exacerbates the racial test score gap. David Card and Jesse Rothstein, economists at Berkeley, found in a 2006 study that: Holding constant family background and other factors, a shift from a fully segregated to a completely integrated city closes about one-quarter of the raw black-white gap in SAT scores. In a 2012 study, “The Grandchildren of Brown: The Long Legacy of School Desegregation,” Rucker Johnson of Berkeley found that the beneficial effects of desegregation continue into the next generation. The children of those who went to integrated school demonstrated increased math and reading test scores, reduced likelihood of grade repetition, increased likelihood of high school graduation and college attendance, improvements in college quality/selectivity, and increased racial diversity of student body at their selected college. The findings demonstrate that part of the intergenerational transmission of inequality can be attributable to school quality related influences. Sean Reardon, a professor of education at Stanford, examines many of the same problems from a different vantage point, focusing in particular on the characteristics of schools and surrounding communities that correlate with test score gaps. In a January 2017 paper, “The Geography of Racial/Ethnic Test Score Gaps,” Reardon, Demetra Kalogrides, a sociologist at Stanford, and Kenneth Shores, a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Pennsylvania, determined that: The strongest correlates of achievement gaps are local racial/ethnic differences in parental income, local average parental education levels, and patterns of racial/ethnic segregation, consistent with a theoretical model in which family socioeconomic factors affect educational opportunity partly though residential and school segregation patterns. The authors examined “achievement gaps in almost every metropolitan area and school district in the U.S. with a significant population of black or Hispanic students” and based their analysis on “the results of roughly 200 million standardized math and reading tests administered to elementary and middle school students from 2009-2013.” Reardon and his colleagues write that it is very difficult to sort out causal factors in test score gaps because they are all closely interrelated: The patterns we note should not be taken as describing causal relationships. The forces producing racial/ethnic inequality in educational outcomes are complex, interactive, and self-reinforcing. They noted a number of basic patterns, including the fact that some of the largest gaps can be found in affluent, well-educated communities and that the higher the level of racial and economic segregation in an area, the larger the achievement gap. Perhaps most intriguing, increased spending correlated with a widening of the achievement gap: The most consistent relationship between schooling characteristics and achievement gaps is the positive association between per pupil instructional expenditures and achievement gaps; in areas with greater spending, even after controlling for between state differences, achievement gaps tend to be larger than in those with lower spending. In evaluating the multiple forces at work, Reardon, Kalogrides and Shores contend that “chief among these factors is racial segregation.” And the one measure of segregation that is a consistently significant predictor in our multivariate models is racial differences in exposure to poverty. Racial achievement gaps are larger, all else equal, in places where black and Hispanic students attend higher poverty schools than their white peers. In practice, the conditions that Reardon and others view as germane to the achievement gap are not improving; they are worsening. In an April 2016 report, the Government Accountability Office found that from 2001 to 2014, the percentage of public schools in which three quarters or more of the students were poor African-Americans or Hispanics grew from 9 percent of all schools to 16 percent. The study also found that compared with other schools, these schools offered disproportionately fewer math, science, and college preparatory courses and had disproportionately higher rates of students who were held back in 9th grade, suspended, or expelled. Among the scholars cited here, there is virtual unanimity on the conviction that one way to improve the prospects of poor minorities, black and Hispanic, is to desegregate both schools and housing. Those are difficult goals even in less polarized times, as the intense opposition to the court-ordered construction of 750 units of affordable housing in Democratic Westchester County recently showed. An Obama administration regulation to require local governments to include specific plans for affordable housing or lose key federal grants was explicitly denounced in the 2016 Republican Party platform: The current Administration is trying to seize control of the zoning process through its Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing regulation. It threatens to undermine zoning laws in order to socially engineer every community in the country. While the federal government has a legitimate role in enforcing non-discrimination laws, this regulation has nothing to do with proven or alleged discrimination and everything to do with hostility to the self-government of citizens. For all intents and purposes, in light of Trump’s election and the way he won, any federally directed effort to reduce racial and ethnic test score gaps that would require white communities to accept more minorities in their neighborhoods and schools is effectively off the table. One additional area of research on the test score gap that hasn’t gotten enough attention may hold significant promise. A November 2015 research paper by Jonathan M. Cottrell, Daniel A. Newman and Glenn Roisman focused on ”racially disparate conditions” that produce “maternal disadvantage” defined in terms of “family income, maternal education, maternal verbal ability/knowledge, learning materials in the home, parenting factors (maternal sensitivity, maternal warmth and acceptance, and safe physical environment), child birth order, and child birth weight.” Looking at these factors as a whole, the study found that they “can account for the relation between race and cognitive test scores.” For the moment, as the Trump administration — with its clear hostility to civil rights and liberal commitments generally — dominates policy making, there is no politically empowered voice for another point of view. “Many young adults born into extremely disadvantaged circumstances have tremendous potential and can flourish when their social contexts change,” Stefanie DeLuca and Kathryn Edin of Johns Hopkins University, and Susan Clampet-Lundquist of St Joseph’s University, write in their 2016 Russell Sage Foundation book, “Coming of Age in the Other America”: Their optimism and determination may be enough to get them to the starting gate, but are often not enough to win the race. The mechanisms for social reproduction — family disadvantage, ongoing risk in their neighborhoods and underperforming schools — are strong. Even if you navigate these landmines, they often encounter a stunted labor market and post-secondary landscape full of snares. Far too many end up a pale reflection of what they could have achieved. Despite clear evidence of the truth of these findings, Trump and those around him do not appear to be listening.