Any defendant who stands before a judge at sentencing is rightly concerned about the length of incarceration the judge might order. Conditions of probation are an afterthought. Too often, those conditions are constitutionally weak, do not promote public safety, add expense to criminal justice and interfere with a defendant’s reintegration to society. The premarital celibacy restriction imposed by an Idaho judge on Cody Herrera is a case in point. The 19-year-old Mr. Herrera pleaded guilty to statutory rape with a 14-year-old girl. (He told authorities that he has had 34 sexual partners, and prosecutors said that he could face additional charges for allegedly videotaping sexual acts with a 17-year-old.) Mr. Herrera received probation and the judge prohibited him from having “sexual relations” outside of marriage as a probation condition. The specifics of Mr. Herrera’s case are troubling to say the least. His victim, who had known him for some time, said she asked him to stop when he came to her room and began touching her, but that he took off both of their clothes and sexually assaulted her. Still, the judge’s order of celibacy helps no one. A probationer’s freedom hangs on his compliance with probation conditions. Banning “sexual relations” without defining the term does not fairly tell a person what conduct violates the condition and can result in imprisonment. Unless defined, “sexual relations” can mean anything from phone sex to intercourse. Can a kiss lead to jail time? A defendant needs to know the limits of acceptable conduct. And a defense attorney shouldn’t have to puzzle about a condition when advising a client. A vague condition is also a problem for probation officers charged with implementing a court’s order and trying to reintegrate a person into society. One officer might interpret “sexual relations” in a relatively permissive way while another deems the same conduct to be a violation. Potential for inconsistent law enforcement must be avoided. Rather than wondering if a kiss is a violation, probation officers should be able to devote themselves to better things like helping a defendant get a job (a major factor affecting recidivism) or getting a probationer substance abuse or mental health treatment (as drugs and mental issues factor into criminality). Additionally, suppose kissing isn’t a violation, but intercourse is. Should an unmarried probationer who has consensual intercourse be imprisoned? The costs are enormous. It’s not just $20,000 to $30,000 in annual expenses. If the probationer is employed, he gets removed from the work force – and it is plenty hard for convicts to get jobs. If the probationer is a parent, the family becomes fractured and someone has to raise the children. Society needs ways to keep people out of jail, and judges should not impose conditions that lead to unnecessary incarceration. The celibacy requirement is that kind of condition. It doesn’t seem to keep society safe, but it can lead to unnecessary incarceration. Unfortunately, judges too often impose a laundry list of probation conditions that can lead to unnecessary imprisonment. In the federal system, those types of restrictions are part of probation-like supervised release. For decades, federal judges have reflexively imposed a litany of supervised release conditions. About a third of defendants get reimprisoned for violating a condition. Reimprisonment may be needed if the defendant committed a violent crime. But what of the person who fails to notify a probation officer of a change of address or employment, unknowingly leaves a “judicial district,” does not file a timely written report of activities, drinks an “excessive” amount of alcohol, or associates with a felon? Even a trivial violation (for example, a late report) or an unknowing violation (meeting someone who turns out to be a felon) can result in reimprisonment. At bottom, judges should exercise good judgment when fashioning conditions and imprisoning people who violate them. When that doesn’t happen, appellate courts shouldn’t hesitate to strike unconstitutional conditions that could result in unnecessary imprisonment. The lesson here might be that the ease of imposing conditions is eclipsed by the costs that grow from them.