The Republican majority in Washington has vowed to bulldoze the legacy of President Barack Obama. Because Democrats — despite round-the-clock efforts this week in the confirmation votes of Betsy DeVos as education secretary and Jeff Sessions as attorney general — have yet to block any member of President Trump’s cabinet, Democrats might appear to have little hope of stopping the Republican juggernaut. While Democrats are out of power, though, they are not out of options. Their tools are limited in the House. But archaic chamber rules grant Democrats considerable leverage in the Senate. By dragging their feet, sticking together and driving wedges between Republicans and Mr. Trump, Senate Democrats can focus attention on controversial parts of the president’s agenda and force Republicans to cast potentially unpopular votes. In the House, a simple majority can end debate and bring matters to a vote. In the Senate, rules on debating and amending bills typically limit the ways the majority leader can advance a party plan, creating avenues for Democrats to gum up the works. Those rules empower a cohesive minority in several ways. The majority leader routinely seeks unanimous consent on procedural matters, meaning that one senator can temporarily block the majority. As a former top Senate staffer recently observed, withholding consent is a sure way for Democrats to slow or stop Mr. Trump. Want to force committees to adjourn? Refuse consent when the leader wants to waive the rule that prevents committees from meeting beyond the first two hours of a Senate day. Want to delay votes for 30 hours? Refuse consent. If Democrats make sure to always have a senator available to dissent and Republicans don’t retaliate by adjusting chamber rules, such tactics can potentially secure concessions. A single objection forces the majority leader to seek cloture — a cumbersome, multiday process culminating in a vote to cut off debate with the support of 60 senators. With a Republican bench of 52 senators, eight Democrats would have to cross the aisle to achieve cloture. Even then, unless all senators agree to waive their rights to more debate, 30 hours of post-cloture debate ensues. Senators can also threaten to filibuster amendments and other motions. So long as 41 Democrats stick together, they can force Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, to slog through cloture repeatedly on just a single bill. And every time Democrats force Republicans to find 60 votes, they make it harder for Republicans to advance other parts of their plan. Democrats have an even more powerful arrow in their parliamentary quiver. Most times, senators can offer unrelated amendments to bills under debate, affording Democrats the chance to create discord among Republicans and between Republican senators and the White House. Debating a bill to deregulate Wall Street? Offer an amendment to reject the president’s order banning refugees and immigrants from entering the country. A bill to loosen limits on offshore oil drilling? Propose an amendment to prevent the president from lifting sanctions on Russia. Senator McConnell can block votes on such amendments only if he also curtails Republican amendments. So Democrats are likely to secure votes on at least some of their proposals that might force Republicans to take sides. Exploiting these Senate rules empowers Democrats to change the subject, signal resistance to their party base and perhaps change voters’ minds. Whether or not their tactics ultimately prevent proposals from going forward, Democrats force Republicans to own Mr. Trump’s agenda by casting controversial votes — a move that could come back to haunt Republicans in the next election. Such tools are of more limited value when it comes to blocking confirmation of presidential appointees. Having banned the filibuster of most judicial and executive branch nominees in 2013, Democrats can slow down nominations, but can’t derail them without Republican defections. Nonetheless, delay eats up floor time and shines a spotlight on nominees Democrats oppose. Senators can still filibuster confirmation votes for Supreme Court nominees, a tactic Democrats are debating now that Mr. Trump has nominated Judge Neil Gorsuch to fill Antonin Scalia’s seat. Some Democrats seem inclined to allow a vote since the confirmation would simply replace one conservative justice with another. Filibustering also increases the risk that Republicans will do away with Supreme Court filibusters altogether, which they could do with a simple majority vote. Democrats are no strangers to exploiting Senate rules, having used such tactics occasionally during the George W. Bush years. Republicans, however, fully weaponized Senate rules by routinely deploying them against President Obama and the Democrats. Americans would know that there was a great debate going on, Senator McConnell reasoned, only if Republicans refused to sign on to Democratic proposals. These tactics could backfire and provoke Republicans to ban filibusters. But senators’ power — majority and minority alike — flows from the chamber’s lax rules. There is no guarantee that a majority would vote to curtail filibusters. The Senate’s 60-vote rule also allows Republicans to blame Democrats for blocking more controversial parts of the Trump agenda. Still, Democrats should take the lesson of the Republicans’ years in the minority to heart. Majorities are more often blamed for inaction than minorities are held accountable for blocking them. If Democrats adopt the Republican playbook, Senate rules will largely work in their favor.