Gail Collins: Hey, Ben, thanks for coming back for another conversation. We may not have agreed about much last week, but it’s fun to argue with you. Ben Domenech: Great to be back with you, Gail. It has been a week of political Calvinball, and there’s just so much to talk about. Gail: I do appreciate your references to “Calvin and Hobbes” at a time when everybody else is talking about “1984” or “It Can’t Happen Here.” Love that kid and his tiger. Ben: Calvinball is a great game — different every time, as the only rule is that you can’t use the same rules twice. You see where I’m going here. Gail: Lots of strange goings-on in the land of Trump. His own Supreme Court nominee complains about the president to a Democratic senator. His counselor violates the ethics rules by telling TV viewers to buy Ivanka Trump’s clothing line. Behind the scenes, a lot of Republicans in Congress are wondering if they can ever really work with this White House. Is the party in trouble? Ben: Well, only as much trouble as a party that controls more than three-fifths of the state legislatures and statehouses and two branches of the federal government can be. Republicans are working in fits and starts to figure out how to govern now that they have the actual authority to put their agenda into practice. They figured out how to run major states like Wisconsin in recent years, but not without pushback, and it’s been a little more than a decade since they had this authority at the federal level. Gail: This was all a subtle plot on the Democrats’ side. Lose all the elections and then force the Republicans to take the blame when anything goes wrong. Got them just where we want them! Don’t mind me — just making a pathetic joke. Go on … Ben: This is what happens when you have a president of a party who didn’t run on the party’s agenda. We see this tension, for instance, within the Republicans’ current debate about what makes for a great tax plan. And how quickly they went from not having an Obamacare replacement to having too many! The real question is which Republicans will get what they want. Is it the freshly minted Republicans joining up with the Trump administration, or is it the Republicans on Capitol Hill who’ve been introducing policies to be vetoed and passed over for the past eight years? But that’s a much better internal problem to have, as I see it, than the ones facing the Democrats. Gail: We haven’t discussed this yet, but I am going to go out on a limb and guess that you’re on the side of Paul Ryan. Paul Ryan is the intellectual right’s version of Lady Gaga. Ben: Well, Ryan’s perspective on issues like trade is closer to my personal views, but one of the many reasons Donald Trump happened was that agenda wasn’t closer to what Republican voters wanted. Gail: Anyhow, having Donald Trump as your party’s president is not a load many people would want to bear. Ben: Winning disguises many problems for the Republicans, in that it allows them to ignore fundamental defects. Not so for leading Democrats, who are confronting a multitude of challenges now. The big one, as I see it, is tension between what their base wants — resistance and permanent protest — and what logic would dictate is their path to expanding the tent and winning back seats and states. Recruiting moderates and centrists who can appeal to those who voted for Barack Obama twice and then voted for Trump isn’t exactly what the protesters are demanding. We’ve seen the outrage directed toward Republican members of Congress at town halls thus far, but often at members like Diane Black, Jason Chaffetz and Justin Amash who all won easily in heavily Republican districts. Can this protest movement shift to trying to pick off more vulnerable Republicans in 2018? Can the protesters provide the juice to be the Democratic Tea Party? What do you think? Gail: Well the first challenge for the Democrats is to come up with a message somewhat more powerful than “the cabinet nominees are terrible.” And instead of just letting the Republicans flop around over health care, I’d like to see the Democrats chart out a vision of their own for improving what is obviously an imperfect current system. “Medicare for all” sounds good to me. Ben: Personally, I still think the idea of replacing Medicaid with $100 in cash and a kitten for everyone has merit. The challenge for Republicans is that they focused so much on Obamacare that they ignored the fact that we hadn’t had a real marketplace for health care that serves people well for a reasonable price for a long time. Long before Obamacare, we had a health care system distorted by artificial barriers and monopoly power. Democrats need to find a way to exploit that. Gail: Ben, health care is not a commodity that you can improve through the magic of the marketplace. Like I said: Medicare for all. Ben: As my former colleague Avik Roy likes to put it, “Liberals believe that health care is treated as a market commodity today but should not be, and conservatives think that health care is not treated as a market commodity but should be.” Both sides are wrong! But that’s a longer discussion. Gail: And possibly several bottles of wine. Ben: I will bring the bourbon! The bigger problem for the resistance is what Rahm Emanuel laid out last week in California, where he basically gave Alec Baldwin’s “Glengarry Glen Ross” speech: “Always be closing.” Gail: Ah, Alec Baldwin. Used to be on stage, now he’s Trump to the world. It’s getting weird but when I hear the president, I subconsciously revert to “Saturday Night Live.” Baldwin is one Trump resister who’s really done his job. But go on. Ben: If only he were still playing Jack Donaghy on “30 Rock,” so we could get that perspective on Trump. Donaghy did admire Willy Wonka for having slave labor and an indoor boat, so perhaps that’s an indication. Back when he was head of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, Emanuel recruited a bunch of moderate, even conservative Democrats in 2006 to win back the House majority. Is there any willingness to do that right now in the party base? I don’t see it yet. Gail: No, the base is not in any mood to listen to Rahm Emanuel right now, thank God. The real message of the post-Trump Democratic Party will probably be hammered out by the next generation of presidential candidates. But there are spectacular numbers of people out there organizing right now, and I hope they’ll be looking for smart, progressive candidates to run for the state legislatures. That’s where the Republicans really won the game. When the next census is done and it’s time to redraw congressional districts again, the Democrats should be ready to go to war against the gerrymandering. Ben: I agree with you about the need for localism. The other day, Slate’s Jamelle Bouie was tweeting actively about a problem facing Democrats in Virginia on exactly this front: a failure to recruit candidates for many state legislature races, including districts where Hillary Clinton won. Local politics should absolutely be the focus of the Democratic Party and the resistance folks. Instead, it’s been abandoned in favor of shouting at other people about national politics on social media or at town halls. That can be fun and entertaining and make for some sick burns, but as the Tea Party learned, it doesn’t change things. Gail: I spent a decade covering the Connecticut General Assembly and I don’t remember a single party at which anybody said, “Wow, you spend your time in the state legislature! That must be fun.” It’s not, admittedly, a glamorous place. But you ignore it at your peril. Let me draw you back to Washington for a minute. Trump has gone to war with the courts over immigration. What’s your take? Ben: One of the biggest uncertainties about Trump’s presidency is how he will respond to the courts telling him no on something significant. We know how strong presidents like Franklin Roosevelt and Andrew Jackson threatened to pack the courts or ignored them entirely. This will be a much bigger than just this one executive order — it could be a sign that the next four years could be a constant furious battle between the executive and the judiciary. And if there’s anything we know about this president, he doesn’t like to be told something can’t be done, or that he can’t do it. Gail: Well, that sounds pleasant. You know, last week we ended up by agreeing that things were weird in Washington. And here we are again, joining hands and crying, “Yipes!” It’s been great talking with you these last two weeks Ben. Hope we can converse again in the future. If the country’s still standing. Ben: Thank you, Gail. Until we speak again, I have in mind an old C. S. Lewis line that seems apt for today’s social media. In a letter to a friend, he wrote: “It is one of the evils of rapid diffusion of news that the sorrows of all the world come to us every morning” because it can “become an escape from the works of charity we really can do to those we know.” Let’s all keep trying to talk with our neighbors (whether or not we disagree), focus on our neighborhoods, and do what we can do where we live.