If there’s one thing I’ve learned editing Op-Ed essays over the years, it’s that when I see a stirring sentiment attributed to Thomas Jefferson, I’d better reach for my Bartlett’s Familiar Quotations. Enlisting a famous thinker like Jefferson may seem like a foolproof way to buttress your argument about, say, abolishing the Electoral College, but it’s not without peril. Just ask the Republican National Committee, which sent out a tweet this week for Lincoln’s Birthday quoting the 16th president as saying, “And in the end, it’s not the years in your life that count, it’s the life in your years.” Maybe because it seems such an unlikely thing for Lincoln to say, people quickly pointed out that there’s no evidence that he ever did, and that the genesis of the quotation perhaps was a 1947 advertisement for a book about aging by one Edward J. Stieglitz. In my experience, Lincoln is a popular source of dubious quotations for Op-Ed contributors, but he pales in comparison with Winston Churchill and Jefferson. “Capitalism is the worst economic system, except for all the others,” sounds pretty Churchillian, and a nice line to add to an essay defending globalism, for example. But he didn’t say it, and even what he did say, in a House of Commons speech — “Democracy is the worst form of government except for all those other forms that have been tried” — he attributed to somebody else, as the Churchill scholar Richard Langworth has pointed out. Similarly, “Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,” sounds like a plausible Jeffersonian line to drop into an essay about government surveillance (and to be fair, Jefferson was a quote machine, taking up nearly three pages in my version of Bartlett’s). But there’s no proof he ever said it in any of his voluminous correspondence. An 18th-century Irish orator did write something like this, but having John Philpot Curran on your side may not add much heft to your argument. Our faulty memories are partly to blame for all this, but a bigger problem is the internet. Plenty of quotation-aggregration sites on the web have Jefferson saying “eternal vigilance,” or Churchill saying, “The best argument against democracy is a five-minute conversation with the average voter.” The creators of those sites seem to be quite skilled at making sure they come up first in the results when an opinion essayist does a search for “Jefferson quotes on liberty.” The best defense for all of this, paradoxically, can be the internet itself. For an editor, proving a negative to a writer — especially one facing the possibility that his beloved last paragraph, his “kicker,” has to be thrown out — is always hard. So I’m grateful for the Thomas Jefferson Foundation (which runs Monticello) for listing fake Jefferson quotations on its website, and for the International Churchill Society for doing something similar. Bartleby.com, where quotations are accompanied by their source, is great for verifying that A Great Man actually did say something pertinent, or that it was, alas, A Lesser Man who did. And the Google Books corpus can be a lifesaver for an editor on deadline. So, the Republican National Committee intern or staff member who put up the spurious quotation has my sympathy. But as Jefferson didn’t say, “Eternal vigilance is the price of avoiding Twitter shame.”