Title IX is perhaps best known for demanding that male and female student athletes be treated equally, but the federal statute, passed in 1972, also offers protections for pregnant or parenting students, transgender students and students who have been victims of sexual or gender-based harassment or violence on their campuses. Many advocates are concerned, however, about the future of those protections under President Trump. During the Obama administration, the Department of Education issued guidelines telling colleges and universities that failing to respond adequately to sexual harassment or violence could be a violation of Title IX, which protects students from discrimination on the basis of sex. In part, those guidelines require institutions to have a coordinator in charge of investigation into and prevention of sex discrimination and sexual violence, to have a written policy that explains the investigation process, and to provide students who report experiencing harassment or violence with accommodations such as counseling or changes in campus housing or class schedule. Survivors of sexual harassment and violence on campus can file a complaint with the department’s Office for Civil Rights if they feel a university has violated the guidelines. The civil rights office is now looking into more than 300 incidents of possible Title IX violations at 223 colleges. Students and faculty and staff members can report violations like a failure to investigate claims, an unfair investigatory process, or retaliation against someone who filed a report or a complaint. Numerous universities have had to answer hard questions about what they are doing to prevent gender-based violence and how they are responding when it happens. In her confirmation hearings, Betsy DeVos, who was approved as secretary of education last week, was asked if the department would continue enforcing Title IX in the same way as it has done for the last several years. Ms. DeVos would not commit to doing so. If the Education Department changes the way it enforces Title IX, the fear is that universities will stop or significantly scale back their efforts to help survivors of sexual assault and prevent future incidents. Nancy Hogshead-Makar, a Title IX advocate, lawyer and former Olympic swimmer, says she fears that without this kind of guidance from the Education Department, schools will heave “a big sigh of relief” because there will be “nobody with the pedal to the gas.” The loss of the threat of a civil rights investigation, which brings with it scrutiny from both the federal government and the public, could slow down the significant progress many schools are making around investigating and preventing sexual assault. There is some reason to be hopeful. Schools have poured lots of money, time and resources into building Title IX departments. They have hired people to staff them and drawn up new policies and processes for addressing sexual harassment and assault. And universities are slow to change; think of them as huge cruise ships with small rudders. “A lot of the schools have come into compliance” in recent years, says John Clune, a Title IX lawyer in Boulder, Colo. “They understand what they’re supposed to do and they’re doing a good job with it. They’re not going to go backwards at this point no matter who is running the Department of Education.” The courts are another source of hope. Students who feel that a school is violating their rights under Title IX can sue the institution. Still, going through the courts can be arduous. Survivors of sexual violence often prefer reporting to the Office for Civil Rights over litigation because, as the guidelines are set now, they can push for change at their university without the time and expense of a lawsuit, says Mr. Clune. In his experience, “even schools that have been very frustrating to work with, when they have an O.C.R. investigation pending, they go ahead and proactively start making some really positive changes.” Still, says Chase Strangio, a staff lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union, if the Office for Civil Rights no longer does its job, “the courts will provide an avenue of a protection consistent with the language of Title IX itself.” Survivors can also influence institutions by telling their stories. Many have done so in recent years, often recounting their trauma repeatedly in the face of people criticizing them and picking apart their accounts. Educational institutions have made changes because of pressure from the civil rights office and court cases, but also because survivors have pointed out when they have failed and demanded more from them. In a time when social media provides many avenues for telling one’s story, that power to drive change will remain. Americans should be concerned about the actions of federal agencies under President Trump, says Mr. Strangio. But agencies are not the beginning or end of the struggle and accountability for civil rights. “The source of substantive protection of the civil rights laws are the civil rights statutes themselves and the agency can’t undo that,” he says. Americans should continue fighting for their civil rights, even if the Trump administration won’t.