IOWA CITY — This article has been updated to reflect news developments. Since the election of Donald Trump, the Republican Party has embarked on a concerted attack on organized labor and public education. Republican senators have introduced a “right to work” bill that would extend the anti-union provisions common in Southern states to the rest of the country. Betsy DeVos, the newly confirmed secretary of Education, is a strong advocate of privatizing public schools. At the same time, Republican statehouses are redoubling their efforts to gut public universities. Take Iowa, where we live, and where Republicans control both branches of the state legislature. On Thursday, lawmakers passed a bill that, if signed into law by Gov. Terry Branstad, would drastically reduce the collective bargaining rights of most of the state’s public employees. The proposed law would allow government agencies to unilaterally reduce or eliminate the health insurance and other employment benefits of more than 180,000 public servants, including nurses, schoolteachers and college instructors. The bill is similar to an anti-union push by Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, which by some accounts reduced public-sector workers’ take-home pay by about 10 percent. At the University of Iowa, where we are graduate students and unionized public employees, this assault on organized labor threatens not only our compensation, but also the quality of our education and that of our students. The Iowa Writers’ Workshop and the nonfiction writing program, where we are students, have put our state on the global literary stage. Together, the programs have produced numerous Pulitzer Prize, National Book Award and Man Booker Award winners. This remarkable record is possible in part because Iowa, unlike many universities, offers M.F.A. students a living wage, excellent health care and a full scholarship. This funding package allows the university to recruit some of the world’s most promising writers and ensures that Iowa remains accessible to students from a wide range of socioeconomic backgrounds. In exchange, most students at the workshop and the nonfiction program teach undergraduate courses in literature and creative writing. This arrangement benefits undergraduates, graduate students and taxpayers. After deducting the cost of her stipend, health insurance and scholarship, an M.F.A. student who teaches 30 undergraduates per academic year yields a profit of more than $20,000 for the university, according to our union’s calculations, which are based on per-credit tuition rates for undergraduate students. If the state bill becomes law, the university could be forced to revoke or reduce the scholarships and insurance that attract top students to Iowa. This would have devastating consequences not just for our programs, but also for other academic departments and the university as a whole. Our most talented colleagues would likely leave for better-funded schools. Those with dependents and medical problems might have to abandon their studies. Graduate students who remained at Iowa would almost certainly have to take on jobs outside the university to cover their tuition and insurance bills, which would inevitably reduce the time and attention dedicated to their undergraduate students. We speak for ourselves, but program directors, department heads and administrators at the university have all told us they are on our side — a gesture for which we are deeply grateful. But we also aware that the university has been put in a difficult position by a state government that does not see higher education as a priority. Before heading to Beijing as President Trump’s ambassador to China, Governor Branstad wants to push a state budget that includes up to $29.5 million in cuts to Iowa’s three state universities, not including additional cuts to community colleges, which could force public educational institutions across Iowa to increase tuition and reduce research budgets, salaries and scholarships. If the governor signs the collective bargaining bill, our union would be rendered powerless, and graduate students could easily be made to shoulder a disproportionate burden of these cuts. The bill explicitly spares police officers and other public safety employees, who would still be allowed to bargain collectively for health insurance and other benefits. That Iowa Republicans are willing to protect some public sector unions shows they are aware of their importance for their constituents’ lives. There’s no question that public safety employees provide a vital service to the community, but so do teachers and nurses. We hope Governor Branstad comes to see the injustice implicit in this imbalance and reconsiders his support for the bill. Democratic societies are only as strong as their public universities. If growing numbers of Americans are excluded from access to quality schooling, whether they are seeking associate degrees or M.F.A.s., the erosion of civil society that we have seen in recent months will only worsen. The higher education system of the United States is the envy of the world. It is up to Americans everywhere to defend it before it’s too late.