GAMBIER, Ohio — When I was a child, my family traveled with a single, totemic “toilet articles bag.” With its Pan Am logo, it hinted at the international life my parents had lived before my sisters and I came along. Now their only travels consisted of vacations to Lake Champlain in Vermont or Rehoboth Beach in Delaware. While my mother was in charge of packing the paisley, non-rolling suitcases, the toilet articles bag was my father’s domain. Into its navy blue plastic he put all those brands I associate with my childhood — Sea and Ski, Bayer aspirin, Noxzema. My father used the Dry Look to keep his comb-over in place, the neutral, masculine name allowing him to use what must have been hair spray. He believed in Vick’s VapoRub for chest colds and Desitin — a fishy-smelling ointment meant for Norwegians and diaper rashes — for everything else. He spent long hours in our only bathroom with a towel wrapped around his waist and a Q-tip stuck in each ear, shaving with Gillette foam and gargling with Listerine, finally emerging in a cloud of humidity and the fluorocarbons from his Right Guard aerosol deodorant. To me, my father was the castle on the Kent cigarettes he smoked. He drove a Beetle with a similar castle on the steering wheel; the clangorous sound of it pulling into the garage meant that he was home from work at the C.I.A. and it would soon be dinnertime. He had his first heart attack pushing that car; whenever it stalled he would aim it downhill, running alongside, then hop in and pop the clutch. After washing the dinner dishes, my mother would apply Jergens lotion while walking through the house, twisting her hands like Lady Macbeth. She didn’t wear makeup, except for the red lipstick she wore to our orchestra concerts. She used Ivory soap, except at Christmas, when she was given Yardley. She used Kotex pads with a belt, and had Catholic concerns about our intrusive Playtex tampons. Everyone used Crest toothpaste, and when gel toothpaste was invented, my parents maintained a wary distance. To them, the gel seemed slightly louche, like using margarine instead of butter. My younger sister was still a kid when I went off to college, so I don’t remember her having any products of her own. But my older sister was all Bonne Bell and Johnson’s Baby Oil; she was determined to tan despite our Scottish skin. She battled the oily hair of adolescence with Herbal Essence and Psssst, a groundbreaking dry shampoo. She didn’t need these products to be beautiful; she had my father’s blue eyes, and her shapely calves made mine look like French’s potato sticks. It was gilding the lily when she lightened her hair with Sun In and doused herself in Jean Naté. But the “body splash” helped to disguise the smell of the marijuana she smoked her junior year of high school, when, according to our parents, she ruined her college chances with mediocre report cards. Years after the heyday of the Pan Am bag, I gave my parents two matching, wheeled, carry-on suitcases, which they used to visit their children and grandchildren, and once for a barge trip down the Rhine. My mother brought hers when she came to stay with us after Hurricane Sandy flooded her home. My younger sister had packed it, along with an index card that listed all our telephone numbers, in case she got confused en route, and a copy of her do-not-resuscitate order. My father was gone by then, and her toiletries had been stuffed into a plastic grocery bag. My two grown sons may one day feel the pang I felt when I saw my mother’s familiar sundries in that bag, if they come upon the tubes and jars that now live upon my bureau — the Dove powder deodorant, Aveda hand cream and Kiehl’s grapefruit body butter. And when those brands have fallen out of fashion, or are gone altogether, I’ll probably be gone, too.