When Sean Spicer was appointed White House press secretary by President Trump, Mr. Spicer tweeted, “Thank you @realDonaldTrump for this amazing honor.” Given the self-inflicted wounds of Mr. Spicer since the inauguration, he’s in danger of joining Ron Ziegler of Watergate infamy among failed White House press secretaries. For personal reasons, I’ve long been a student of White House press secretaries. In late 1969 I received a call from the White House chief of staff, H. R. Haldeman, that I would be invited to lunch by a friend of his, and that I should keep an open mind. As a young political reporter in California in 1967, I often encountered Bob Haldeman in his role as a regent in the state university system and as head of J. Walter Thompson, the advertising agency that handled NBC’s West Coast promotion campaigns. (Ron Ziegler supervised the NBC account for him.) The crew-cut Haldeman I knew was an affable source of information on university and Republican issues during the early days of Gov. Ronald Reagan’s administration, not at all like the stern figure of President Nixon’s White House years. Haldeman had been an advance man for Nixon’s losing 1960 presidential bid, and when he rejoined Nixon for the 1968 campaign, he quickly became a powerful insider, leading to his appointment as chief of staff. His friend, my luncheon host, was a personable Los Angeles public relations man who quickly got to the point: “Bob would like you to consider becoming the White House press secretary. He’s talked it over with the president, who approves.” White House press secretary to Richard Nixon? I had been raised in a family of Franklin Roosevelt and Harry Truman Democrats. My parents were skeptical about John F. Kennedy, but my wife and I were generational enthusiasts. I worked hard at keeping personal beliefs out of my work, but there were limits. My first job, in a deeply conservative Omaha newsroom, was a test. Most of my colleagues thought I was a crazed liberal for supporting Medicare and the voting rights and civil rights bills. At lunch with Haldeman’s emissary, I stammered something about having just signed a new contract with NBC News, a big step to becoming a national political correspondent, my dream job. He suggested I think about it. “I have,” I said, “and it just isn’t what I am equipped to do. Please tell Bob I am flattered but no.” I rushed back to my office and swore my boss to secrecy, saying, “You have to get me out of this.” As it turns out, Julian Goodman, president of NBC and a patron of my career, was visiting the White House the next day. He made a point of taking Haldeman aside and saying that while the offer was flattering, NBC News had other plans. The secret held and my standing at NBC News continued to rise while Nixon won re-election and then became embroiled in the Watergate scandal. I watched as Haldeman went to prison with other members of his zealous team. In the summer of 1973, as the scandal picked up pace, I was named White House correspondent for NBC News. By now Ron Ziegler had given up the daily press briefings, which fell to Jerry Warren, a laconic San Diego newspaperman. The White House press secretary job is a fuse lit every day, ready to explode with the slightest mistake in language, tone, fact. The most successful press secretaries have common traits. They’ve had a mutually respectful relationship with their boss. They’ve been veterans of campaigns. They didn’t always appreciate the role of the press but they accepted the reality that it wasn’t going away. I’ve always classified Mike McCurry, President Bill Clinton’s press secretary during the Monica Lewinsky scandal, as a Tom Brady in the job. He had worked for two senators, including Daniel Patrick Moynihan. He had also worked on presidential campaigns and as spokesman for the State Department. He was a liberal but not an ideologue. As for me, the only lingering effect of my hard and fast decision to decline Haldeman’s offer were two unexpected moments. In 1987 Hofstra University organized a retrospective on Nixon’s presidency. I was backstage when someone grabbed me in a bear hug, laughing and saying, “You know how many times I’ve watched you on television and thought, I could have put that young man in a position where he could have gotten in a lot of trouble.” It was H. R. Haldeman. I said: “Bob, no one knows about your offer. Please!” He laughed again and said, “Don’t worry.” In 1990, as my 50th birthday approached, NBC colleagues sent crews around New York to get birthday wishes. One of the crews came into my office and said, “You’ve got to see this!” The tape rolled. It was Nixon in his familiar blue suit, standing stiffly beside an American flag, saying, “I’ve always thought Tom Brokaw was a man of very good judgment.” Pause. “He never showed better judgment than when he turned down my offer to be my press secretary.” President Nixon and I had very few views in common, but I was more than willing to accept his conclusion.