This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. “In the fight to save the ACA, next week is absolutely pivotal,” Topher Spiro tweeted on Thursday, referring to the health care law. “And YOU can help…” The fight for the law is really a fight to prevent millions of people from losing health insurance and, by extension, medical care. While there are other ways beside the Affordable Care Act to provide insurance, Congressional Republicans have yet to offer such a plan — despite seven years of promising to do so. If you’re a regular reader of this newsletter, you know that I think individual actions can affect national politics. The Tea Party showed how to do it, and left-leaning groups are now repeating those successes. Remember the failed plan to gut the House ethics office, scuttled by a surge of anger? Next week is an important one for health care because members of Congress will be going home, where they will be holding town halls and other meetings. (Here’s a schedule.) Those meetings are a chance for people to make clear the actual stakes in the health care debate: not the reputation of Donald Trump, Barack Obama or any other politician, but the well-being of a lot of Americans. “Rallies and town halls do have an effect,” Spiro, a former Congressional staff member who now works at the Center for American Progress, told me. “I want to see an outpouring of support for the A.C.A. I want to see lots of big rallies on T.V. I want to see YouTube clips of people asking good questions.” I understand that the Affordable Care Act has flaws, and that serious conservative plans for providing insurance exist. But Congress hasn’t yet offered one of those plans. In reality, all of the “repeal and delay” or “repeal and replace” plans on the table would harm millions of people. The message for Congress next week, and beyond, should be clear: Don’t take away people’s health insurance. The full Opinion report from The Times follows, including Evan McMullin on Russia’s threat to national security and Linda Greenhouse on immigration raids.