PHILADELPHIA — My mother, Fran, is not a great one for selfies. But a few weeks ago, I was scrolling through my Facebook feed and saw a new shot of my mom, grim of face and wet of hair, wrapped in a silvery warming blanket, in front of a row full of gym lockers. “Had to take refuge outside from pool during call-in threat that caused J.C.C. evacuation,” she’d written. “Pool and nursery school evacuated.” I went to my Facebook page to share Fran’s post and asked if anyone had more information. People did, but not just from Connecticut, where my mom was swimming at the Jewish community center in West Hartford. “Second time in two weeks down here at the J.C.C. in Delaware. My kids go to the preschool and have been evacuated both times,” one friend wrote. Another said: “I just got an alert that the J.C.C. in Marin, Calif., was evacuated due to a threat. The hate seems to be spreading like wildfire.” And another: “At 11:45 they evacuated our J.C.C. in West Bloomfield, Mich. I live directly across the street, and all seems quiet there.” On the day my mom was forced to get out of the pool, Jan. 18, 26 J.C.C.s in 17 states were the targets of bomb threats. Even if my mom hadn’t posted her wet-faced selfie, it would have felt personal. I’ve probably spent an entire year of my life in the J.C.C. in West Hartford. When I was 3 years old, I went to preschool there. When I was 15, I spent six weeks in Israel on a trip run by the J. When my first book was published, one of the first places to invite me to speak was my Jewish community center. I’ve now spoken in J.C.C.s from San Diego and San Francisco to St. Louis to Atlanta. My nanna spent the last months of her life in the Meer Apartments, on the campus of the J.C.C. in West Bloomfield. Every time I visit my mom, we drive to West Hartford to work out and swim. If synagogue is where Jews feel the most Jewish — praying in a foreign language, celebrating holidays that aren’t always on the office calendar — the J.C.C. is where many of the nation’s estimated 5.3 million Jews feel the most Jewish American. It’s the place they go to do all kinds of nonreligious stuff. It’s where parents drop kids off at preschool, or pick them up from summer camp. It’s where moms take yoga or Pilates, or dads relive their glory days on the basketball courts, or retirees attend lectures or cooking classes or have high-school students tell them how to work iPads. The J is, in short, a place to go about the business of a regular, unremarkably American life. That’s why it was terrifying to watch week after week of bomb threats — a total of 68 threats at 53 different J.C.C.s in the United States and Canada. While not any of the threats were deemed credible, there was good reason to take them seriously, because J.C.C.s have been the targets of real violence. In 1999, a white supremacist wounded three children, a teenager and one adult at the North Valley Jewish Community Center in Los Angeles. In 2014, two people were shot to death, by a 73-year-old former leader of a Ku Klux Klan chapter, outside the J.C.C. of Greater Kansas City. Newspapers published articles on the recent incidents. Jewish leaders requested that the president condemn the threats. Reporters asked about his silence. Still, it wasn’t until Tuesday that President Trump spoke directly about the bomb scares. “The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and community centers are horrible, and are painful, and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil,” he told reporters at the National Museum of African American History and Culture. What took him so long? If Mr. Trump finds the time to go after department stores and television networks and Mark Cuban and Meryl Streep, why was he so reluctant to offer the kind of boilerplate reassurance that would have slipped effortlessly from the lips of any politician on either side of the aisle? Around the time Jewish community centers were being threatened, when parents were receiving terrifying come-get-your-kid phone calls, when water aerobic class participants were sent outside to huddle in the cold, our president was twisting himself into rhetorical pretzels to avoid a simple condemnation. He was shouting down reporters, reframing the issue, celebrating himself as “the least anti-Semitic person you’ve ever seen in your entire life,” offering variations on the theme of “some of my best friends are Jewish,” and reminding us all of his Electoral College victory. Of course, full-throated rejections tend to stick in Mr. Trump’s craw. Think back to the campaign, and his response to David Duke’s endorsement, which included a sullen “O.K., all right, I disavow, O.K.?” that made him sound more like a teenager promising to stay out of the liquor cabinet than a presidential contender telling the one-time Grand Wizard of the K.K.K. to take his support and shove it. Recall the time his administration’s Holocaust Day Remembrance statement failed to mention the six million Jews who perished. When Jewish groups found fault, Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, blasted the press as “nit-picking.” Maybe Mr. Trump’s foot-dragging is the behavior of a man who’s so thin-skinned that any criticism must be answered with an attack. Maybe he’s recoiled instinctively because part of the J.C.C.s’ original mission was to help Jewish immigrants assimilate. Or maybe it’s a case of dancing with them that brung you, of giving a permissive wink to the alt-righties and the nationalists who were some of the first passengers on the Trump Train. The president’s silence, and his day-late and dollar-short declaration, made their own statement. They said that American Jews did not deserve his reassurance, that the threats against places where we lift weights and send our kids to finger-paint weren’t important enough to require his swift condemnation, like Arnold Schwarzenegger’s poor ratings, or that time the cast of “Hamilton” addressed Mike Pence during a curtain call. During his Inaugural Address, Mr. Trump said that “when you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room for prejudice.” If he believes the words he reads off a teleprompter as much as the ones he says off the cuff, he cannot let bomb threats become business as usual. The J.C.C.s are true community centers where all are welcomed, microcosms of the America that the president claims to want. They are worth protecting.