This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. It’s easy to confuse the past with the future. In 2016, Donald Trump won the presidency thanks to a surge of support in heavily white rural areas and smaller cities. But that doesn’t mean those same places will provide the crucial swing votes in the near future, starting with the 2018 midterms. This week — in the run-up to the selection of a new Democratic Party chief — some of the country’s sharpest political analysts began focusing on the places that may really hold the key to Congressional control in 2018. My Times colleague Nate Cohn started the discussion on Wednesday. He noted that the swing districts in the House tend to be well-educated and diverse, like Orange County, Calif. Most of these areas supported Hillary Clinton, not Bernie Sanders, last year. The swing districts generally do not look very much like the Midwestern areas that won Trump the presidency (partly because those areas are heavily gerrymandered). As Dave Weigel of The Washington Post later tweeted: “Honestly the funniest 2018 result would be: Dems win the majority based on suburbs after reporters spend two years canvassing rural diners.” To be sure, Democrats remain underdogs to retake the House. But the president is probably helping their odds. “Trump is governing in full accordance with the xenophobic nationalism that drove his campaign,” Greg Sargent of The Post wrote. “While Trump still remains very popular among blue-collar whites, those voters may not be all that decisive in the battle to wrest House seats from Republican incumbents.” What does this mean for the Democrats choosing the next chairman of their national committee tomorrow? The party certainly needs to improve on its 2016 showing in white America, in order to retake the Senate and state governments. But Democrats shouldn’t make the mistake of fighting the last election. Their task is more complicated than trying to win a do-over of the 2016 presidential campaign in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. For those interested in more details on the Democrats’ choice of a leader, NPR has published a helpful guide to the candidates.