President Trump likes Campbell’s soup, he told the Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday. The aside was a humorous reference to his meeting with business leaders on Thursday, when he created another Twitter meme by telling Denise Morrison of Campbell Soup Company, “Good soup.” That was a high point in the speech, a warmed-over broth of poll numbers, self-aggrandizement and grievance over his “bad press.” In the final moments of his rant, he offered a reheated version of his stump speech, vowing without many specifics to fight radical Islamic terrorism, build a wall, deport more “bad dudes” and place “America First.” He also managed to offend another American ally, by claiming that Islamic terrorism in France meant that “Paris is no longer Paris.” Mr. Trump delivered the White House to the Republican Party, and most in the crowd at CPAC cheered for him. But some conservatives still struggle to embrace this president, who didn’t espouse their policies or values until he needed their votes. Instead of addressing their doubts on Friday, Mr. Trump again chose a lazy, dishonest path. Recycling tired accusations, ranting off-script, he spent most of his time labeling unfavorable stories about his administration with the stale moniker “fake news.” This is false, Mr. Trump knows it, and yet he insults his audience by repeating it. Deeply reported revelations about his inner circle’s ties to Russia, for example, have generated multiple investigations and ended up costing Michael Flynn, the former national security adviser, his job. What Mr. Trump never mentions, either, is the news media’s practice of giving the White House multiple opportunities for comment and rebuttal before a story appears — opportunities that the White House usually refuses. Are the news media being too hard on Mr. Trump, or are his team’s lack of experience and early stumbles generating an unusually large number of negative stories? Many Trump voters at CPAC believe the former. Jeff Johnson, an attendee from Illinois, pleaded in an interview: “This is the first minute in the first quarter of the game. It does make me sick how the media just bashes on the guy. Could you give him a chance?” But what does that mean, when the president of the United States insists on lying about coverage that doesn’t favor him, and chooses to lash out at government “leakers” rather than address problems they are raising? Mr. Trump’s stew of false charges obscures legitimate points. On Friday he complained again about the media’s use of unnamed sources, something news outlets struggle with and Mr. Trump has taken advantage of in the past. When he insists, as he did on Friday, that a story backed by nine unnamed sources is “made up,” it’s obvious that Mr. Trump, not the media, is making things up. For now, minutes into the first quarter, he’s getting away with it.