On Wednesday, President Trump rescinded protections for transgender students that had allowed them to use bathrooms according to their gender identity, an issue that has roiled recent political discourse. Earlier in the week, one vigilant reader pointed out language that he felt needlessly distinguished between biologically born women and transgender women. The line came in a column on the resistance discussions to Trump’s agenda that are taking place over dinners in private homes. The columnist describes the attendees as: “Most of the members are women or identify as women.” This seems like a clumsy attempt to signify that some of the attendees as trans. If the person identifies as a woman shouldn’t the Times refer to them as such? Randall Smith, Northampton, Mass. The public editor’s take: The reader has a good point. I’m not sure this was a distinction worth making in the first place. Over the weekend and into Monday, letters came in referring to another topic at the forefront of the new White House’s agenda lately — illegal immigration. Several readers found headlines misleading in their descriptions of a new Trump proposal. I get people can have legitimate beefs against the immigration rules coming out, but the headline is “Trump Proposal Would Deport More Immigrants Immediately.” Are you kidding me? That makes it sound like he’s deporting people who immigrated here legally. Glen Powell, New Hope, Minn. The Times has an article captioned “Immigrants Hide, Fearing Capture on ‘Any Corner.’ ” Surely this is misleading and refers to unauthorized migrants / undocumented immigrants insofar as the word “immigrant” means someone in the United States permanently who has attained immigrant status under law. Yet it appears to be a troubling trend. I am a moderate Democrat and generally oppose the president’s harsh approach to targeting unauthorized migrants / undocumented immigrants. I don’t want to live in a country where mass amounts of people are rounded up simply for seeking a better life here. However, I consider it counterproductive to use words which are misleading to further a serious debate. I would rather have a debate about policy regarding unauthorized migrants / undocumented immigrants rather than lambasting someone unfairly as “anti-immigrant.” From a newspaper’s perspective, apart from an opinion or advocacy piece, it is even more important to be accurate. Steven M. Ziolkowski, New York, N.Y. The public editor’s take:  The head of the copy desk, Jill Taylor, agrees with the reader that “illegal” would have made for a clearer headline, though she pointed out that, for space reasons, the desk took a calculated risk that readers who’ve been paying at least a little attention would not equate “immigrants” with all immigrants. Two reactions from me. First, I sympathize, as always, with the dilemma of the copy editor trying to fit “undocumented immigrants” into a headline. But making the choice to lose the qualifier distorts the meaning. Headlines that refer only to “immigrants” makes it sound like a World War II-style round-up. Deporting immigrants who are undocumented, and thus here illegally, is a much smaller subset of all immigrants, and aggressive deportation of this group has been pursued in past administrations too. Plus, with the occasional confusion that some White House directives are producing, clarity on what in fact is happening becomes all the more crucial. Advertisement Readers also took issue this week with another headline, this one on a story about the sentencing of an Israeli soldier who killed an unconscious Palestinian attacker. Specifically, readers were upset that the print headline didn’t note the Palestinian had been the initial aggressor when he carried out a stabbing attack at an Israeli checkpoint in March before being killed. The print headline read: “Israeli Soldier Who Killed Wounded Palestinian Gets 18 Months.” The digital headline, on the other hand, read: “Elor Azaria, Israeli Soldier Who Killed Wounded Assailant, Gets 18 Months in Prison.” While it should not be unexpected, it never ceases to shock me when I see such a headline. The fact that the word TERRORIST is somehow left out following “Palestinian” is a staple of NYT writing. I’m not sure if this is the cause of lack of research, or just intentional ignorance. Miriam Rosen, New York, N.Y. The public editor’s take: It can often be difficult to sort through the competing claims of biased reporting in coverage of the Middle East, with views so hardened on both sides and emotions running high. This headline, however, does seem to miss the mark by failing to signal a core element of the story.  Headlines were the hot topic of the week: Another one that stoked the anger of readers was on the home page, and pointed to a story about Milo Yiannopoulos’s fall. The headline read: “Star of the Alt-Right Backs Man-Boy Sex, and Is Shunned.” This isn’t the first time The Times’s headline editors have conflated the rape of children and sex; you already addressed this in your column, on Oct. 22, 2016. It’s time for another thorough conversation. Jon Morrow, New York, N.Y. We asked Michael Owen, editor of the news desk, for his view. First, I want to say that I and my colleagues on the News Desk are deeply mindful of the sensitivities around the wording of a headline like this. The headline was in fact the subject of intense discussion at several points in its lifespan, and as a result grew more, not less, precise and direct. I understand and appreciate the view that it didn’t go far enough, though I don’t share that view. As you know, the reason for the furor was Yiannopoulos’s argument that 13-year-old children can offer sexual consent. Using “rape” to characterize what he was describing would be accurate in one sense: Children of course cannot give consent. But it would also paper over his counterfactual argument — that sex with a child can be something other than rape — and the reason for the backlash. Yiannopoulos didn’t say child rape is OK; he said some sex with children is not rape. There are a hundred good headlines for almost any story. We could have found a yet better one. But the one we used offered no cover for Yiannopoulos, or his argument. The public editor’s take: I have in fact written about this issue before, including a headline on a story about a Montana judge who sentenced a man to two months in prison for raping his preteen daughter. The Times headline at one point referred to him as having sex with his daughter. In this case, I appreciate what the editors were thinking in addressing the headline — that they were trying to capture Yiannopoulos’s perspective. But the headline speaks from the voice of The Times, and, as written, it swaps the language of assault for the language of sex. Before Trump appointed Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster as his new national security adviser, The Times ran a story on a possible choice who turned down the job. The article concluded with a sentence about another contender for the post, the former general and director of the C.I.A., David Petraeus. The line stood out to several readers: “Mr. Petraeus resigned from the C.I.A. in 2012 after admitting that he had an extramarital affair.” The end of this article tells us that former General Petraeus may be selected to replace (Michael) Flynn and notes that he resigned as C.I.A. director because of an extramarital affair. This is so wrong and misleading. He resigned because he gave classified documents to a woman with whom he had an extramarital affair. This really comes across to me as terrible gender bias, Hillary Clinton gets blasted by the NYT (rightly so) for possibly exposing classified information by using a private server, but Petraeus only gets a bad boy slap for fooling around. The real story on Petraeus is that he handed out classified documents to impress a girl. Readers should know this about a possible national security adviser. Mary Wickens, East Lansing, Mich. Failing to mention that a candidate for one of the top national security positions in government pleaded guilty to sharing classified information with the woman with whom he had the affair is utterly absurd and irresponsible. I’m astounded. Weldon Berger, Honolulu The public editor’s take: Here’s a case of applying a little too much haste in describing Petraeus’s checkered past. An editor I spoke with agreed. Obviously, in the case of the fallen general, it would have been more accurate to attribute his ouster to his mishandling of classified material.  Returning to our hot topic of the week, it may have taken the military backgrounds of the men in line for the national security adviser position — or simply rabid fandom of “Apocalypse Now” and its Wagner helicopter scene — to have spotted the issue with the following headline: “New Slopes in South Korea.” None of your editors know that “slope” is a derogatory term for an Asian person? Guess they didn’t serve in the military. Keith Danish, Leonia, N.J. The public editor’s take: I’m guessing not too many editors have served, though in this case it seemed obvious that the reference was to the ski slope picture above the headline.  Advertisement Far away from Korea, in the Bensonhurst neighborhood of Brooklyn, Uzbeks of Korean descent run a restaurant that The Times recently reviewed. The review ran with a slide show, and one of the photos was removed after readers commented. I and another reader each posted a comment online about one of the pictures that showed graffiti of the gang MS-13 spray painted on the door next to the restaurant. My comment was it would prevent me from going to the restaurant, and the other comment was that the owners of the restaurant wouldn’t appreciate that picture. Soon enough, the picture was swapped out for one that didn’t show the graffiti, and our two comments were deleted. I feel like the better approach would be to have an editor comment under our comments saying the picture was changed. I don’t know how that graffiti wasn’t noticed in the first place, but to switch it after the fact and not acknowledge the change seemed dishonest. Rebecca Forman, Staten Island, N.Y. I tried to leave a comment saying that an explanation should have been provided. That was not printed, and the comments about the picture were also deleted. The editors should have provided an explanation, not just send the whole matter down the memory hole and pretend it never happened. Joe Griffith, Yonkers, N.Y. We went to the editor of the review, Patrick Farrell, for an explanation. Here’s what I know: A producer approving comments let me and our photo editor, Tiina Loite, know about the gang tag, which we decided could be seen as offensive or provocative, like a swastika, and which had no direct relevance to the review. We saw that we had a similar photo without the tag, so we swapped it in. In hindsight, we might have saved the reader some confusion if we’d appended a note acknowledging the change. The public editor’s take: Seems like a reasonable approach and responsible outcome to me. Finally, one reader objected to a line in a piece on a Republican plan to replace the Affordable Care Act. I am writing to you about the line: “not just the poor, but also middle-class people who have run out of money.” I thought “people who have run out of money” is the definition of poor. This is incredibly tasteless journalism, showing huge bias. Why are some people poor? Because they have no money, mainly due to low income and no buffer savings with which to cope to with unexpected life events such as loss of job, illness/disability, divorce, etc. Yet clearly The Times thinks that some people with no money are “middle class,” no doubt due to background, education, or worse, race, and that these people remain “middle class” by virtue of their tribe regardless of the fact that all of their money has been consumed by the U.S. health care system, while others are just “poor.” Gross. Both are poor. Both deserve our care, respect, and attention. Matt Wennersten, Washington, D.C. We agree. Each Friday, Evan Gershkovich, in the office of public editor Liz Spayd, surfaces some of the more thoughtful and provocative feedback that comes in — some of which is edited for clarity and length. To be featured here, email the public editor at public@nytimes.com. Follow the public editor on Twitter @spaydl.