Now that feminism is fashionable, it is common to ask female celebrities on the red carpet or elsewhere whether they would describe themselves as feminist. Is Jennifer Lawrence a feminist? Yes! Is Meryl Streep a feminist? She prefers the word “humanist,” but I think that still counts, so yes! Is Lana del Rey a feminist? No! Is Beyoncé a feminist? Yes! After the world of celebrity journalism concludes this very important investigative work, the feminism-lite online world maintains clickbaity lists of 33 Celebrities Who Stood Up for Feminism and 17 Celebrities Who Are Wrong About Feminism and 22 Celebrities Who Have Cellulite … oh, I guess that last one isn’t relevant, although it contains a lot of the same names. It used to be that celebrities ran from the word “feminist.” It could be box office poison, like a milder version of what could happen if a leading man came out as gay. Suddenly audiences who had no trouble imagining the star as a green-skinned superhero who can travel through the core of the earth were like: “But now he’s making out with a chick? Is this chemistry even believable?” Same with feminism. The old feminist archetype — a rejection of all hair products, the swollen bellies and bosoms of the Venus de Willendorf, and oh my god I don’t think they even wear high heels — was at odds with the gazelle-like stature we prefer for female celebrities. That has changed. There has been an aggressive marketing campaign within the feminist community to make it less scary, more sexy. As a result, more women are likely to call themselves feminist, but the word has also lost most of its meaning. Beyoncé performs in front of a “Feminist” sign. But she is a brazen capitalist who gives private concerts for the executives of corporations like Uber, a company that has a long history of labor and sexual harassment violations. She has been accused of borrowing the work of some female artists, including the choreographer Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker, or being slow to attribute their work. What does it mean that she calls herself a feminist? Does it just mean she believes in her ability to make money? Why do we look to famous women to tell us how to feel about feminism? Celebrity feminism is part of a self-empowerment fantasy that takes our history of oppression and our desire for liberation and uses it to sell us products. You will be set free with this pop star’s album, this waterproof eyeliner, this $200 sweatshirt printed with a feminist slogan. Some celebrities’ claims of feminism are backed up with work that tries to change the boys club culture of the entertainment world. Nicole Kidman’s production company hires women writers and producers and actively works to expand the actresses’ roles beyond the girlfriend, the wife and the victim. But for the most part it’s just something to say in an interview. Yes, I’m a feminist, just don’t ask me to define that. So next time an actress is trying to promote a film, a pop star is trying to promote a record, a “real housewife” is trying to cross-promote some bizarre venture, rather than asking them whether or not they’re a feminist, mix it up a little! It’s Oscar Sunday, the stars are all around, #askhermore. Here are eight questions to ask your favorite female celebrity — or male celebrity, they are easily adaptable — to get beyond the label and get at the content of their beliefs. 1. Oh, don’t worry, I’m not going to ask you to justify why you’re making a movie with a man who was recently arrested for domestic abuse! None of my business. But when was the last time you chose to work with a female director, producer, director of photography, writer or key grip? 2. As your body is setting the standards for beauty among preteen girls who also want to be pretty and loved, how hungry are you right now? 3. I love your new line of girl power T-shirts! So chic. Do you know how much the Bangladeshi women and children who sewed them were paid for their labor? 4. If you say you are a feminist, are you more of a bell hooks feminist? A Shulamith Firestone feminist? No, no, Shulamith Firestone, the writer, not a juice cleanse. O.K., well, are you an Emma Goldman feminist? 5. Let’s do a multiple choice! I want to know if your feminism is intersectional. Here are five possible definitions for the word “intersectional” — give it your best shot. 6. Do you know how much your male co-stars are making? Do you know how much the cleaning women on set are making? 7. What is the carbon footprint on your private jet? 8. Oh, so you’re thinking of moving to Canada now that Donald Trump is president? Do you think your life, insulated from his policies by your fame and money, has been affected by his administration? Yes, let’s ask her more. And when someone offers herself as an aspirational feminist figure, let’s just see if she truly is someone to aspire to be.