This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. It’s important to remember exactly when Jeff Sessions’s meeting with the Russian ambassador occurred. The meeting took place on Sept. 8, weeks after Russia’s intervention in the presidential campaign had become a huge story. This timeline makes Sessions’s defense — that it was a garden-variety, unmemorable meeting — a little hard to accept. Even if nothing untoward happened during the meeting, Sessions had to have understood how sensitive it was for a top adviser to the Trump campaign to meet with the Russian ambassador. Yet in January he chose to testify, under oath, that he “did not have communications with the Russians” during the campaign. Now he claims to be the victim of a simple misunderstanding — that his meeting with the ambassador was part of his job as a senator, not a campaign surrogate. Is there a technical, if friendly, reading of his testimony that suggests he didn’t lie under oath? Yes, I think there is. But I don’t see any reading of the testimony that indicates Sessions told the whole truth. For reference, this was the question that Senator Chuck Grassley asked Sessions at the start of the testimony: “Do you swear that the testimony that you are about to give, before this committee, will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth so help you God?” Sessions replied: “I do.” If you want to read more, I recommend: Richard Painter, the chief White House ethics lawyer under George W. Bush, explains why Sessions should resign in The Times. Ian Millhiser of ThinkProgress explains why Sessions’s decision to recuse himself is not sufficient. David Frum, in 21 tweets, explains why Sessions’s dishonesty underscores the unique danger of the Trump presidency. Susan Hennessey and Benjamin Wittes of Lawfare have argued that a select congressional committee is the best and most realistic way to get answers to the Russia scandal. (Lawfare also posted an updated piece on Thursday.) James Hohmann of The Washington Post has a nice curation of responses to Sessions, and Evan Osnos of The New Yorker looks at what’s likely to happen next. Karen Yourish and Wilson Andrews of The Times created a clarifying timeline. And last week, I set out to explain the motives for the Trump administration’s Russia love.