This Week in Hate highlights hate crimes and harassment around the country since the election of President Trump. For many Americans of South Asian descent, the shooting in Olathe, Kan., last month of two immigrants from India was part of a disturbing pattern. Even as South Asian American communities grow around the country, their members are increasingly victims of harassment and violence. Often, they are perceived, correctly or not, to be Muslim. Harmann Singh, a Harvard Law School student who was born and raised in Buffalo, N.Y., was talking on his cell phone to his mother in a Cambridge, Mass., store when a man swore at him and called him a Muslim. Mr. Singh tried to walk away, but the man followed him around the store, demanding to know what country he was from. Though Mr. Singh is Sikh, not Muslim, he saw the incident as an opportunity to take a stand against Islamophobia. “It’s really important that we all come together,” he said, to “fight against injustice against anyone and not just our own communities.” Violence and harassment against Americans of South Asian descent have risen in the last year, according to the group South Asian Americans Leading Together (SAALT). The group reported 140 incidents of violence and harassment between November 2015 and November 2016, compared with 76 between January 2011 and April 2014. South Asian Americans are the fastest growing demographic in the United States, according to SAALT. But white supremacist groups are also on the rise, and many Americans of South Asian descent are frightened for their safety. In the wake of the Kansas shooting, said Suman Raghunathan, the executive director of SAALT, some families are afraid to send their children to school. “This is yet another reminder for our communities that there is the perception that we do not have a place in this country,” she said. Although South Asian Americans practice a variety of religions (or no religion), people who hold racist or Islamophobic views tend to conflate them with Muslims and people of Middle Eastern descent. “All of our communities are essentially lumped together as being un-American,” Ms. Raghunathan said. Ninety-four percent of the incidents SAALT tracked last year were motivated by anti-Muslim bigotry. Statements by President Trump and others may be helping to stir up that bigotry. Researchers at California State University, San Bernardino, have found a connection between anti-Muslim statements by politicians and hate violence. For example, there was an 87.5 percent rise in anti-Muslim hate crimes in the days following a 2015 speech by Donald Trump, then a candidate, calling for a “total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.” Now, Ms. Raghunathan said, “the xenophobic political rhetoric of Trump as a candidate” is turning into real policies like the executive orders on immigration. She is heartened that the F.B.I. is now investigating the Olathe shooting as a hate crime, and called for hate crime statutes in the five states that have yet to pass them. The bureau began tracking hate crimes against Sikhs and Hindus in 2015, and data on violence against these groups could help law enforcement fight the problem. For instance, police departments can train officers to investigate crimes in which Sikh men are targeted for wearing turbans, said Harsimran Kaur, the legal director of the Sikh Coalition, a civil rights group. While Mr. Singh, the Harvard Law student, was initially shaken by his experience, and heartbroken by the Olathe shooting, he maintains “a sense of optimism” that Americans can come together to fight bigotry. In particular, he said he believes people should step in if they see that someone else is being harassed, even if it means “just being there for them, talking to them and making sure they feel comfortable and they feel safe.” Meanwhile, he wishes his harasser “had a chance to get to know me,” he said. “My faith preaches love and acceptance and, for me, makes me a stronger American.” If you have experienced, witnessed or read about a hate crime or incident of bias or harassment, you can use this form to send information about the incident to This Week in Hate and other partners in the Documenting Hate project. The form is not a report to law enforcement or any government agency. These resources may be helpful for people who have experienced harassment. If you witness harassment, here are some tips for responding. You can contact This Week in Hate at weekinhate@nytimes.com.