Last week President Trump again called to revitalize the United States military, most notably with a 10 percent increase in the defense budget. Such proposals make for a snappy sound bite and enable the president to bask in the reflected glow of the armed forces, which happen to be more popular than he is. Yet in the absence of a coherent national strategy, arbitrary increases in the defense budget will do little to make America safer, and could make the world more dangerous. There is no doubt that the United States faces serious security threats. The Defense Department is dealing with genuine readiness and modernization challenges, and reasonable people can disagree about whether targeted budget increases are a necessary remedy. Some experts see rising threats from North Korea and Russia and have called for augmenting the United States’ ground warfare capabilities after long campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq. Others call for increasing funding for the Navy, which is slated to shoulder the cost of a new ballistic missile submarine — the backbone of the nation’s future nuclear force — even though this effort may squeeze out the service’s traditional shipbuilding. Ideally, a coherent defense budget process would reflect these types of debates, prioritizing some threats over others and determining how best to combat them. In the real world, the defense budget is complex, politicized and hard to wrangle even when incoming administrations attempt to link their budgets to a vision. But they usually try. For example, President John F. Kennedy’s defense secretary, Robert McNamara, proposed reducing funding for the Air Force because Kennedy had promised to move away from President Dwight D. Eisenhower’s emphasis on the service’s nuclear capabilities. Similarly, President George W. Bush’s first defense secretary, Donald Rumsfeld, focused his early efforts to reshape the budget on defense “transformation” to reduce each service’s legacy force structure while investing in information, stealth and precision technology. Neither president got exactly what he wanted, but each made a vigorous effort to link proposed changes to strategic priorities. President Trump’s call for an increase in military spending doesn’t have even the veneer of this sort of guidance. Instead, the administration has delivered a bundle of simplistic national security slogans rife with contradictions and gaps. The Islamic State is said to be a top priority, for example, but the administration has gone out of its way to needle Iran, which might otherwise be America’s de facto ally in that fight. The administration professes worry about North Korea’s threatening behavior, but instead of solidifying United States leadership in Asia and strengthening the relationship with China, the administration has axed participation in the Trans-Pacific Partnership and been erratic in its dealings with Beijing. In Europe, the administration’s surrogates claim the United States is committed to NATO, but the president’s disturbing affinity for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and thinly veiled disdain for longstanding allies have plunged the trans-Atlantic relationship into crisis. Unless a larger defense budget can buy rational presidential leadership, these problems won’t go away. What a larger defense budget would buy in the absence of such leadership also remains unclear. Most troubling is the fact that the Trump administration apparently intends to fund increases in the defense budget by slashing components of the federal budget that contribute significantly to national security, including the State Department. The armed forces are a vital component of the national security tool kit, but so are diplomacy, economic engagement and post-conflict reconstruction. The use of military force should always be a last resort, and the balanced application of other, less costly tools of national power helps prevent wars and crises from arising in the first place. By contrast, the president’s approach promises the militarization of American foreign policy, which is likely to strain and overextend the military in the long run. Excessive long-term military spending and costly foreign adventures have been the downfall of many a great power, including the Soviet Union. In the Cold War, in fact, the United States’ victory stemmed partly from its relative overall restraint in military spending and long-term commitment to nonmilitary tools of foreign policy — a lesson the president would do well to remember today. The United States already has the best-funded military in the world, accounting for roughly 40 percent of all money spent globally on defense. It devotes more dollars to defense than the next 12 largest military spenders combined, and most of those big spenders are allies. It is true that China and Russia are engaged in military modernization, but both countries’ annual estimated combined military spending amounts to about a third of what the United States spends. The good news is that presidential budget proposals are always the opening gambit in a negotiation process, and there are already signs that the president’s approach will face pushback from fellow Republicans in Congress. That’s comforting, though it isn’t a substitute for the president providing a sensible and consistent approach to national security.