Fate seems to have dropped a giant gift on the doorsteps of right-wing pundits and Twitter activists. Last Friday, the F.B.I. announced the arrest of a suspect in a series of bomb threats aimed at Jewish Community Centers and other Jewish organizations across the country, and he wasn’t some Trump-loving white supremacist with a history of violence and a racist manifesto in tow. No, he was a man of the left, a reporter fired from the left-leaning website The Intercept for fabricating quotes and sources. The ideologues of the right-wing news media wasted no time in posting their “gotchas.” Breitbart declared the suspect to be a Bernie Sanders voter and “Fake News Reporter.” The Daily Caller pegged him as an “Anti-Trump Communist.” “The left has insinuated for weeks that Donald Trump and his supporters were to blame for the bomb threats against Jewish community centers,” sniffed Paul Joseph Watson of the right-wing conspiracist clearinghouse Infowars. “It now turns out that a left-wing anti-Trump journalist was responsible for the threats. The MSM’s narrative has been completely eviscerated yet again.” Well, not exactly. For one thing, the alleged threatener in question — Juan Thompson, 31, of St. Louis — has only been charged with a few of the more than 100 threats that have been made against Jewish organizations so far. For another, despite Mr. Thompson’s radical views, there’s no indication that his politics had much to do with his alleged threats. According to authorities, Mr. Thompson wasn’t trying to terrorize American Jews. Nor was he trying to pin the blame on right-wing Trump supporters. No, the phony threats were merely the latest episode in a long and frequently bizarre campaign of harassment Mr. Thompson unleashed on a former girlfriend starting last summer, the unsealed complaint against him alleges. Indeed, the complaint reports, Mr. Thompson was “confronted by law enforcement” last November after falsely accusing his ex-girlfriend of possessing child porn, an accusation authorities were able to track back to his computer. His apparent attempts to frame his former girlfriend for the bomb threats were similarly inept. In emails to Jewish organizations, Mr. Thompson accused her of making or planning to make bomb threats. He also, bizarrely, sent threats to organizations under his own name, in a failed attempt to convince authorities that his ex-girlfriend was attempting to frame him. If Mr. Thompson’s phony threats make little sense as a political act, they are far more explicable as a malicious revenge campaign by a jealous and possessive former partner. Stalking and harassment are shockingly common after breakups, and women are usually the target; roughly one in seven women (and one in 17 men) are victims of stalking over the course of their lives, according to the National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey. While trying to frame a former partner for a series of bomb threats may seem like an extreme form of cyberharassment, smear campaigns are a common tactic of abusers. Indeed, the Gamergate controversy that roiled so much of the internet in recent years began, not as Gamergaters like to claim, as a noble crusade for ethics in video game journalism, but as a harassment campaign aimed at an indie game developer accused by her ex of cheating on him. Abusers often circulate nude selfies or videos of their exes, stolen or given freely during the relationship, or post them on “revenge porn” websites. Such images and videos can circulate online forever. Sexual smear campaigns can lead women to quit their jobs and contemplate suicide, and because of the difficulty of prosecuting cyberharassment, most online abusers avoid consequences for their actions. If Mr. Thompson is guilty, then his lies appear to have had serious collateral effects. His phony bomb threats may have been intended as a cruel jab at his ex-girlfriend, but they also contributed to a deep and spreading feeling of uneasiness among American Jews. Unfortunately, Mr. Thompson isn’t the only opportunist here. It’s bad enough that right-wing media outlets have seized on his case as a way to deflect attention from the very real — and thoroughly documented — resurgence of anti-Semitism that has accompanied President Trump’s rise to power. They have also ignored what seems to be a severe case of intimate partner harassment in order to make a spurious political point.