It looks as if Republicans want to bring back health care rationing. In 2010, Mark Price, a 37-year-old resident of Goodyear, Ariz., was struggling to pay the bills for his leukemia treatment. His house was under foreclosure. He had insurance through Medicaid, and yet he died after the state said it would not pay for a potentially lifesaving bone marrow transplant. Facing a $2.6 billion budget deficit, Gov. Jan Brewer and Arizona Republicans had opted to ration care, eliminating state payments for bone marrow, liver, heart, lung and other transplants. Simultaneously, the state changed eligibility rules to cut health care for 47,000 low-income children and 310,000 low-income adults. Arizona was not the only state that cut lifesaving health care benefits during the Great Recession. In 2010, Indiana’s Medicaid program denied an infant with a deadly rare disease a tissue transplant, reversing course only after local media coverage led to public outrage. If the Republicans replace the Affordable Care Act with the plan released on Monday, we should expect more stories like those. First, the Medicaid rolls will shrink. The Affordable Care Act extended Medicaid to all Americans earning under 138 percent of the federal poverty line — $16,643 for a single person and $33,948 for a family of four in 2017. Under the Republican plan, enrollment in the Medicaid expansion will freeze starting in 2020. The 11 million Americans who already gained coverage can, in theory, keep it — but only if they never let their enrollment lapse or their incomes rise. Then Republicans want to go further, by changing how all of Medicaid is funded: They would replace federal Medicaid payments, which guarantee coverage to anyone who qualifies, with so-called per-person allotments, or per-capita caps. These give states a fixed amount of money for each person on Medicaid, adjusted based on whether the person is blind, disabled, a child, an adult or elderly. The states then decide how to budget the money. The problem is that the amount given to the states will not keep up with projected health care costs. Changes in the allotment will be tied to changes in the medical part of the Consumer Price Index, which, for various reasons, is unlikely to increase as quickly as the cost of health care. This shortfall in federal funding will force more states to make the kinds of rationing choices Arizona and Indiana made. A second hidden kicker is that the grants will not increase in response to changing needs. Currently, federal funding is tied to actual Medicaid costs. So if a state has a natural disaster or an epidemic that unexpectedly increases spending, federal funding automatically increases, too. But the Republicans’ allotments will not respond to real-world changes. Again, this will force states to make more difficult choices — cutting lifesaving treatments or nursing home care for the elderly or support for disabled children. The Republicans say they want to give states more flexibility. But that flexibility most likely means they could use the money for non-health-care programs, or to close state budget gaps. When given budgetary flexibility with large sums of money, this is a common state tactic. In 1998, as part of a major settlement with tobacco companies, in which the companies agreed to pay Medicaid costs related to lung cancer, emphysema and other smoking-related illnesses, states got a windfall of a minimum of $206 billion over 25 years. What did they do with the money? A 2001 Government Accountability Office report found that 26 percent was being spent on non-health programs, including infrastructure and budget shortfalls. A mere 7 percent was spent on programs related to getting people to stop smoking. State flexibility has led to other coldhearted decisions. Before the Affordable Care Act, Medicaid was a categorical program, meaning that Americans were eligible only if they were low-income and had another qualifying condition, such as being a child or pregnant or disabled. States could determine those eligibility requirements. And financial pressures made many pretty callous. In many states, non-disabled working adults were denied any Medicaid benefits. In Wyoming, a working family of three with an income over $9,480 was not eligible for Medicaid. In Alabama, that family had to make just $4,392 — 24 percent of the poverty line — to be denied coverage. These people were not lazy or, in Mitt Romney’s words, “takers.” About 67 percent of uninsured Americans were in families with at least one full-time worker, and more than 10 percent worked two jobs. The uninsured just happened to work for companies that did not or could not provide health insurance. State flexibility is a ruse. Per-person allotments are an elaborate cost-shifting mechanism — a fancy way to reduce federal funding and transfer financial responsibility for the health care of low-income Americans to states. A 2014 assessment by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities of Representative Paul Ryan’s plan, which contained elements similar to those in the current proposal, estimated that this accounting trick would increase Medicaid costs for state budgets by $169 billion by 2026. So, under the banner of flexibility, the current Republican plan would force states to make a series of Hobson’s choices. This would be even worse than going back to the days before the Affordable Care Act. It would force states to ration care and deny some Americans lifesaving treatments or nursing home care. Cruel only begins to describe the Republican plan.