Every person alive can define himself in a single sentence. That’s what the novelist Susan Rieger once told me, and as soon as she said it I knew what mine would be: I come from a large, Irish Catholic family. I’ve spent my life taking pride in being 100 percent Irish. (At some point in the 1980s, I even owned a sweatshirt on which the sentiment was scrawled in green puffy paint.) My hometown, a Boston suburb, boasts one of the highest percentages of Irish-Americans in the country. Growing up, my friends and I took Irish step-dancing lessons. Our neighbors gathered on summer nights to sing “The Wild Colonial Boy” and “Black Velvet Band.” Every year on St. Patrick’s Day my family would watch the parade from a cousin’s house, and eat corned beef and cabbage for dinner. When I moved to New York 14 years ago, my roots ceased to be a trait I shared with everyone I knew, and instead became specific to me. I’ve always liked that my surname, Sullivan, announces me as Irish. One of the reasons I didn’t change it when I married was that my husband’s name, Johannesen, offers no hint of who I am. Being Irish is something I have in common with my relatives, even when distance and politics divide us. Last summer, on a beach vacation, five of us simultaneously pulled out tubes of S.P.F. 50. “We’re Irish,” someone said by way of explanation. The same reason is given for why we rarely hug or talk about our feelings. A few months back, I came down with an acute case of ancestry anxiety. It started when I saw a television commercial in which an affable-looking man in his 50s stands before a table of beer steins and says, “Growing up, we were German.” He recalls dancing in a German dance troupe, wearing lederhosen. Until he took a home DNA test from AncestryDNA, a product of Ancestry.com, and learned that he isn’t German at all. In fact, much of his ancestry is Scottish. “So,” he concludes with a grin, “I traded in my lederhosen for a kilt.” The commercial put a terrifying thought in my head: What if I’m not Irish after all? Soon after, a friend who grew up embracing her Italian-American identity — she makes her own pasta and cooks recipes purportedly handed down through the generations — took the test and learned that she is barely Italian. Unlike the man who so gladly gave up his lederhosen, she felt quite depressed about it. In America, so many of us feel connected to our origins. We visit the homeland, we trace our family trees. I kept wondering: What happens if we find out that none of it was ours to begin with? Plenty of people aren’t scared off by this proposition. Ancestry.com has sold 3 million DNA kits since 2012. For $99, the company sends you a vial, in which you collect your saliva. Mail it back, and within a few weeks, you get the details of your ethnicity. Additionally, more than one million people have taken a DNA test through 23andMe.com. When several friends and family members received the kits as Christmas gifts, I was tempted to take the test, too. Part of me was curious. But on some level, I wished only to be proven right. This was back during the holidays, though it feels like another lifetime. Now I’d give a lot to feel anxious about something as silly as a TV commercial. But lately that DNA test has been back on my mind for a different reason. Our government wishes to close the door on refugees, on outsiders. Embracing one’s immigrant past has suddenly become more than a hobby. It’s a form of resistance. On social media, friends post photos of ship manifests recording their ancestors’ arrivals. They share black and white photographs and stories. My husband, Kevin, has always been a bit perplexed by our national obsession with ancestry. He likes to tease me that I’m not Irish; I’m American. But in most cases, that’s precisely what it means to be American — to have roots somewhere else. We are proud of the forebears who faced tough odds to get here, even if we had nothing to do with it. Remembering what they endured should be the key to having compassion for what others are experiencing right now, this minute. I have never been as moved as the first time I visited Miltown Malbay, the village my mother’s paternal grandmother left as a teenager. I hadn’t thought of it until then, but her decision to immigrate alone changed the shape of our family. Of course, so much gets left behind or misconstrued, lost or simplified, from one generation to the next. Last year, a cousin of mine, a woman in her 70s, told me how her son went to some effort to get a plaque placed at Ellis Island for our ancestors who came over at the turn of the last century. A lovely idea, she said, except the relatives in question didn’t come through Ellis Island. They came through Nova Scotia. There’s a divide between what we assume we know and where the truth actually lies. One of the clearest findings from home DNA tests is that, contrary to what many people believe, remarkably few of us are of only one ethnicity. (In AncestryDNA’s database of 3 million customers, it’s only half a percent.) In 2012, speaking about his own fascination with genealogy, particularly for African-Americans cut off from their pasts by slavery, Henry Louis Gates Jr., host of the PBS show “Finding Your Roots,” said, “I think it will revolutionize our understanding of American history and also our concept of race when we realize there is no purity.” As home DNA tests grow popular, people are learning that they’re not who they thought they were. Maybe that’s not something to be afraid of, but embraced. Several months after hearing about it for the first time, I’ve decided to order the kit. Whatever the results, I’ll still know by heart all those childhood jigs and reels that are responsible for my good posture and complete inability to dance like a normal person. I’ll still sunburn easily. I’ll still come from a large, Irish Catholic family, even if we’re a little less Irish than we thought.