This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. There are two words that didn’t appear anywhere in yesterday’s Sunday Review articles: “Donald” and “Trump.” If you want to see for yourself, I’ve included links to every article below. The Op-Ed editor, Jim Dao, came up with the idea in response to Trump’s dominance of the national conversation. As Rachel Dry, the lead editor of the Sunday Review, explained: “Our ambitions with this Sunday Review were twofold: To highlight stories we think are important and engaging and to put forward an argument about the media attention the president commands. We decided not to overexplain the premise — though of course, that is what I’m doing now — and hoped readers would find the section of interest whether they noticed anything different or not.” The closest the print section came to acknowledging its theme was what journalists call a “refer” — a short summary of an article elsewhere — that appeared atop the section’s cover. It read: “What happens when you don’t talk about the one thing on everyone’s mind” and referred to a piece inside by the comedian Joe Zimmerman. Much of the attention to Trump is warranted, of course. In fact, it’s important. But it does have an unfortunate side effect: It crowds out discussion of other vital topics. In the weeks ahead, I’d encourage everyone to carve out some space in their lives and brains for non-Trump topics. The full roster of Sunday Review articles: “Want to Fix Schools? Go to the Principal’s Office” “Yes, Your Sleep Schedule Is Making You Sick” “Don’t Think About the White Bear” (Zimmerman’s piece)  “The Dangerous Safety of College” “Still Fighting, and Dying, in the Forever War” “Propaganda in Istanbul” “Prisoners of Boko Haram, Then Prisoners of Fame” “How the Dutch Stopped Being Decent and Dull” “Kiss Me, I’m Pretty Sure I’m Irish”  “The Law’s Emotion Problem” “A Lifeline for Troubled Veterans” “Crime and the Adolescent Brain” “In Los Angeles, a Festival of Love and Hapa-ness” “Are Your Sperm in Trouble?”  “Resist the Internet”  “The Moral Failing of Obamacare Repeal” “In a Refugee’s Bags, Memories of Home” “Stop Beating Black Children”