NASHVILLE — “Fight the power,” the Facebook message said. “Get two tix for Donald and let the place stay empty!” I clicked the link, and that’s how I learned that the president of the United States was coming to Nashville. As with so many of these scattershot acts of resistance, the call to reserve tickets and leave the seats unoccupied seemed pointless for a first-come-first-served event issuing unlimited tickets. I made my reservations anyway on the off chance I was wrong. Then I thought, “I should just go.” Not as a protester — megaphone-to-megaphone combat is a fine American tradition, but it’s not a great fit for someone who likes pretty much everybody. Most Tennesseans might consider me a Yellow Dog Democrat, but President Trump’s people are my people — the people I come from, the people I live among. I believe my people elected the greatest threat to American democracy since the Third Reich, but I haven’t been able to work up a real us-versus-them way of thinking about my own friends and family. The president was scheduled to speak at 6:30 p.m., but when I got down to the Municipal Auditorium at noon, the line of people waiting to get in stretched all the way around the building — twice — before crossing the street and continuing farther than I could see. “Wow, what time did you get here?” I said to a guy near the front of the line. He’d been standing there since before dawn, on a day when it was 23 degrees outside. A few steps down the line, a Trump supporter named Megan Taylor was dressed in jeans and a “Make America Great Again” hoodie with sleeves made of American flags — and dozens of Trump buttons: “Hot Chicks for Trump,” “Girls Just Wanna Have Guns,” “Basket of Deplorables Member.” “I feel like I’m at the fair!” Ms. Taylor said, turning to show me a button the size of a salad plate: “Trump 2016 — Finally Someone With Balls.” But mostly the line looked like any line that might form outside Nashville’s scruffy Municipal Auditorium for a concert by a band a decade past its chart-toppers but still pulling in true believers on tour. Word had gotten out among protesters that the empty-seat strategy wasn’t going to work, and a new plan called for them to take their seats and then rise to leave en masse once the president took the podium. But there was no evidence of anti-Trump sentiment on the line. Either the protesters hadn’t gotten in line before dawn themselves, or it was impossible to tell protesters from supporters. For several blocks around the auditorium, vendors pushed carts full of souvenir buttons, hats, T-shirts and Trump masks. A large vehicle labeled “Trump Tram” circled the block with an effigy of Hillary Clinton imprisoned in a cage on the roof. If spectacle is what you crave, a Trump rally is worth getting up before dawn for. But there’s a big difference between a Trump rally and an actual county fair in the American South. Except for the vendors, most of whom were black, the people outside the Municipal Auditorium yesterday were white. I mean, they were all white as far as I could tell, with the exception of one African-American woman and her teenage daughter, who had driven in from Memphis for the event. “I wanted something new,” the woman, Sybil Dukes, said about voting for Mr. Trump. “It wasn’t that I was discriminating against Hillary as a female. It’s just that I’m a Christian lady, and I believe what he was saying in terms of abortion.” For her daughter, Johnesha Dukes, the decision was even more straightforward: “I just liked him.” Settling in for a long wait, strangers in line were becoming friends. We talked about Nashville’s traffic, now nightmarish thanks to tourists and endless construction and “pedal taverns” full of drunken bridesmaids. Mostly we passed the time telling stories — this is the South, y’all — unrelated to politics. I did not identify myself as a writer or as a liberal, and the folks around me made their own assumptions. When a police officer stopped to tell me my backpack wouldn’t be allowed in the auditorium, I asked my new Trump friends to save my place while I dropped my stuff back at the car. “I hope you make it back in time,” one man said. “I’ve enjoyed talking to you.” I didn’t make it back. On the other side of the block, the protesters had arrived. Tennessee is a blood-red state, but Nashville is a blue city, an arrangement that works roughly the way living with an ex in the same house might work. Every time Nashville passes a law to increase inclusion, or decrease idiocy, the State Legislature passes a law that overrides it. Last month, when Nashville residents took to the streets to protest the president’s executive order on immigration, a state representative named Matthew Hill proposed a bill protecting drivers from civil prosecution if they happen to run down a protester. People in the wealthy parts of town tend to vote a straight Republican ticket here, but Nashville’s mayor, Megan Barry, is an unapologetic liberal. Our member of Congress, Jim Cooper, is a Democrat. In the time between Thursday of last week, when the presidential visit was announced, and the rally on Wednesday, a Metro Council member, Freddie O’Connell, introduced a bill that would require “presidents and major-party nominees to have released federal tax returns prior to using public facilities in Metro Nashville.” A full-throated protest was inevitable. By Tuesday more than 2,000 people had committed to attend — including buses full of activists from Memphis and Knoxville. One of the earliest to arrive was John Boylan, who described himself as “an Ecumenical Franciscan and an Ecumenical Catholic priest.” He was holding a “Beat Swords Into Plowshares” sign and wearing a sticker that said “Paid Protester” with a Chi-Rho monogram, the symbol for Christ, in place of each P. “My payment comes later,” he said, pointing heavenward. People from groups like Indivisible, the A.C.L.U. and the Tennessee Immigrant and Refugee Rights Coalition were present in force, but everyone on both sides of James Robertson Parkway seemed calm. I asked Francie Hunt, executive director of Tennessee Advocates for Planned Parenthood, how the famously testy Trump supporters were behaving. “Actually, I haven’t heard anything from them,” she said, “but the day is young.” By the time the auditorium doors opened, I was hearing scattered reports of intimidation, particularly from protesters who had to pass that mile-long line on their way to the demonstration: “We had to walk all the way by them with our signs,” said Mary Reeves, who drove in from Murfreesboro. “At first it was just the usual, and then they said, ‘We’ll kill you, we’ll kill you.’ ” “It was very scary,” her friend Debi Tannock said.“We were going to go inside, but we decided we weren’t going to. I’m fearful for my life.” I might’ve looked a little skeptical. I’d been in that crowd for more than five hours by then, and except for the way they vote, the Trump people all seemed pretty innocuous to me. “Take this sign and walk by them,” the women from Murfreesboro urged. “You’ll get to experience ….” She trailed off. I’d get to experience the real Trump supporter? I didn’t take her up on the offer, but she had a point. Nothing I’d done myself that day had provoked anyone spoiling for a fight. Meanwhile on the other side of the road, the Ecumenical Franciscan was holding his ground right in the middle of the Trump supporters waiting for the line to move. “Beat swords into plowshares — where does it say that in the Bible?” one guy called out, passing by. “Two different sources,” Father Boylan said, turning to speak to him. But his heckler was already gone.