SEWANEE, Tenn. — Sexual energies were loosed early this year in Tennessee, then quashed. In February, spring peepers made my ears ring as I walked through wetlands east of Nashville’s honky-tonks. These frogs were a month ahead of their normal schedule. But what is normal in a year when the calendar says spring starts Monday, yet the season started weeks earlier for plants and animals? When New York was clipped by a snowstorm last Tuesday, the streets had already been dusted with pollen from early-blooming red maples. Spring has been particularly hasty and irregular this year, but this is no anomaly. In the latter half of the 20th century, the spring emergence of leaves, frogs, birds and flowers advanced in the Northern Hemisphere by 2.8 days per decade. I’m nearly 50, so springtime has moved, on average, a full two weeks since I was born. And you? We now experience climate change not only through the abstractions of science, but also through lived experience. Early spring felt good; early spring felt dreadful. Now, whiplash as we slam into a snowbank. This is the motion sickness of climate change: The world lurches, and our bodies know that all is not well. What we experienced as spring, a predictable appearance of buds and birds, is passing away. Our children will live in uncharted, unnamed seasons. In the forests here in Tennessee, instead of tracking foxes in winter snow, I spent February being startled by precocious bloodroot and other wildflowers piercing the leaf litter. Phoebes sallied after sun-warmed flying queen ants and spring azure butterflies. Japanese quince bloomed in garden hedges before January was over, multiflora rose broke bud on Valentine’s Day, and Mardi Gras came with Bradford pears in bloom. Then, in March: snow. A month after frogs sang through 70-degree evenings, freezes in the teens brought silence. Time-lapse images of springtime’s advance this year look like a heat rash washing over a continent, south to north. The cold compress of last week’s storm is only a temporary salve. Spring came about 20 days early in the Eastern and Midwestern United States, according to the government’s National Phenology Network (phenology is the study of the seasonal timing of biological events). Even with the snowstorm, cherry blossoms a few steps from the White House and the headquarters of the Environmental Protection Agency are greeting the new occupants with startlingly early growth and blooms. According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, February was the second warmest of the past 123 years in the contiguous United States, and the warmest ever in New York and 15 other states. NOAA predicts more higher-than-normal temperatures in the East and South  in the coming weeks. It’s not just children in the United States growing up in transformed seasons. Relative to just 30 years ago, satellite sensors report, the seasons are now changed over 95 percent of the earth’s land surface. Not every species responds to climate change in the same way. Species newly arrived from overseas have genetic memories of other climates, giving them an advantage over the locals. The earliest plants to leaf out this year were privet, bittersweet and honeysuckle, all from Asia, and all able to tolerate ice on their young leaves. Climate change is predicted to give such introduced species a boost across the eastern United States: Kudzu is now headed to New York, hitching a ride as warmth moves north. The phoebes that I watched migrate over short distances, breeding in the Eastern and Midwestern United States and Canada, then wintering in the Southeast and Mexico. This year they’ll take their cues from the plants and insects. If the warm trend continues, they’ll shift their own breeding forward, adapting to the changed season. Migrant birds that come from farther away, though, are likely to find that spring has passed them by. In Europe, the larger the mismatch between the arrival of birds and the abundance of their insect food, the worse the bird populations fare. It is not just timing that has changed, though. A recent global survey found that climate change had affected 82 percent of the biological processes that underpin all life. And yet, even when faced with mountains of scientific evidence that our actions are remaking the fabric of the world, our societal response has been, at best, modest. Why do we not act? The unusual spring teaches us not just about tree leaves and frog calls, but about the human psychology of climate change. The uneasy mix of pleasure and dread in weird spring weather reaches inside us in a way that trend lines on graphs never will. Lived experience moves us. Data does not. A necessary complement to the objectivity of science, then, is the subjectivity of experience. An enthusiastic openness to the lives of other species — the timing of tree blooms on city streets, the calls of frogs in wetlands or the arrival of migratory birds — is an act of resistance to deceptions and manipulations that work most powerfully when we’re ignorant. “Post-truth” does not exist in the opening of tree buds. Springtime strolls around our homes are more than pleasant diversions. They are the raw material of our collective memory, the seeds of the stories we’ll tell in the future. The next generations will have no living memory of our time. We must go outside and pay attention, then weave this experience into the future, telling our children, students and friends what we saw, heard and smelled in this season formerly known as spring.