Spending cuts alone do not a fiscal conservative make. Remember that as President Trump claims to be one, bigly, based on the deep cuts he’s proposed in just about everything the government does other than defending the nation and distributing Social Security and Medicare checks. Instead, partly because of those cuts, Mr. Trump is forfeiting the mantle of fiscal conservatism that the Republican Party claimed for a century. This is no break with his party, however: Mr. Trump is completing a fiscal trend that reaches back at least two decades to Newt Gingrich’s revolution, when Republicans broke Democrats’ near lock on congressional majorities, and through the George W. Bush years, when Republicans last controlled both the White House and Congress. A whole generation of Americans has come of age since most Republicans abided by true fiscal conservatism — that is, prizing small government and low taxes but being willing to raise taxes to keep a healthy balance sheet. Trumpism would just take fiscal irresponsibility to a new level. Like “Ryan Republicans” — defined for nearly a decade by the budget plans of Representative Paul D. Ryan, now House speaker — Mr. Trump is promising multitrillion-dollar tax cuts that overwhelmingly benefit the top 1 percent. Unlike Ryan Republicans, Mr. Trump says there will be no compensating reductions in Social Security and Medicare, the entitlement programs that are — along with insufficient revenues — driving projections of unsustainable federal debt as the population ages and claims benefits. (The president used to say Medicaid was off-limits, too, until the Republican health care proposal took aim at the program for the poor and disabled.) What Mr. Trump proposes to cut is the relatively small 15 percent share of total federal spending that nonetheless covers most government operations, other than the Pentagon and entitlement programs. That so-called nondefense discretionary spending includes a raft of programs that disproportionately benefit “the very people that President Trump said would be his priority, people who have been left behind by today’s economy or live in distressed urban or rural communities,” said Robert Greenstein, president of the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. Among them: opioid-addiction treatments and training for workers whose jobs were lost to offshoring. Mr. Trump is bound to fail to get cuts as deep as he wants. After years of trying to limit deficits by carving up the same slice of the budget pie for spending, such big whacks will be politically unpalatable even for Republicans in Congress. Already that spending portion is the smallest it has been since the government began keeping track 55 years ago, during the Kennedy administration. And as Maya MacGuineas, president of the fiscally conservative Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, noted, the portion “is projected to grow more slowly than inflation” going forward. True fiscal conservatives would know: Not only is this type of spending not the cause of rising federal debt, but also much of it is what long was called the nation’s “seed corn” — money for investments in public works, science, medical research, a skilled work force and other purposes crucial to future prosperity. True fiscal conservatives also would know: Even wiping out all such spending would not be enough to offset the costs of Mr. Trump’s tax cuts, infrastructure dreams, the biggest military buildup “in American history” and “a great, great wall” across the southern border. Inevitably that means adding trillions to the nearly $20 trillion debt, beyond the roughly $10 trillion more that’s projected under current policies even if nothing changes. Congressional Republicans’ own budget resolution, approved in January, would add $9 trillion. Yet Republicans quit being true fiscal conservatives long ago. Thomas E. Mann, a scholar of governance at the Brookings Institution, goes back to the Reagan era, when cutting taxes began to take precedence over cutting deficits. “The driving objective was to cut taxes, which is easier to accomplish than cutting spending, and after a while Republicans came to believe Dick Cheney’s line that ‘deficits don’t matter,’” Mr. Mann said. “And someone who’s fiscally conservative wouldn’t make the indiscriminate slashes in the very small discretionary domestic budget. Conservatives look to conserve, to be prudent and look to the needs of the country.” The last budget surpluses were in the final years of Democrat Bill Clinton’s presidency, when he shared power with a Republican Congress. A technology boom pushed up tax revenues, but credit also goes to the deficit-reduction packages that Mr. Clinton and George H. W. Bush ushered into law in 1993 and 1990, respectively, together with Congresses then controlled by Democrats. Those packages included tax increases and spending cuts, along with an important new limit on Congress: Pay-as-you-go rules that required offsetting savings for new spending or tax cuts. But George W. Bush disowned his father’s fiscal legacy: His Republican rival in 2000, Senator John McCain, often said that Mr. Bush could not keep both of his big promises — tax cuts and a new Medicare prescription drug benefit — without reopening huge deficits. As president, Mr. Bush did get both from a compliant Congress, and Mr. McCain was right: Republicans did not even try to pay for the Medicare benefit. In contrast, when Democrats recaptured Congress in 2006, they revived pay-go rules, and the next big expansion social program, Obamacare, was fully paid for, by tax increases and spending curbs. Having condemned deficits under President Barack Obama, forcing him to accept spending cuts even as economists urged more stimulus spending to spur the sluggish recovery, Republicans now are open to borrowing for Mr. Trump’s tax cuts, border wall and infrastructure plans. Under Mr. Obama, they shut down the government and repeatedly risked the nation’s credit standing by opposing essential increases in the federal debt limit. They were egged on by Citizen Trump. Now he is President Trump. A deadline for another government-funding bill looms in April, and the debt limit must be raised months later. But already he has flunked the tests of fiscal conservatism.