WASHINGTON — Stephen Miller has been called a lot of things since becoming President Trump’s senior policy adviser. Last month, when Mr. Miller made the rounds of Sunday talk shows to defend the president’s first travel ban, the “Morning Joe” host Joe Scarborough called his performance “horrendous and an embarrassment.” On “The Late Show,” Stephen Colbert called Mr. Miller, who is 31, “young Gargamel,” after the evil wizard on “The Smurfs.” David Letterman described him as “creepy.” The vitriol isn’t new. As a young conservative growing up in progressive Santa Monica, Calif., Mr. Miller was remembered by high school classmates chiefly for his right-wing provocations against the liberal establishment. He clashed with administrators over what he perceived as their left-wing bias, called into radio talk shows to complain about it, and railed against political correctness in op-ed essays, once describing his school as “an institution not of learning, but of indoctrination.” He continued to play the role of contrarian-provocateur at Duke, prompting one (admiring) classmate to tell The Atlantic that “Miller had two very well-earned reputations: as an aggressive self-promoter and as a bomb-thrower.” Mr. Miller, in other words, was a gadfly — one whose worldview was shaped by the experience of forming and articulating his views in an environment where conservatism was unpopular. In the best-case scenarios, several Republicans now working in Washington told me, being a conservative in overwhelmingly liberal places sharpened their critical thinking skills, moderated some of their views and tempered their youthful arrogance. But life on the defensive can also foster a kind of ideological contrarianism that can curdle into reactionary politics. Being conservative in liberal institutions, especially on college campuses, has long shaped the intellectual identity of young conservatives who later rise to prominence. Judge Neil Gorsuch, whose confirmation hearings for the Supreme Court begin Monday, gained experience articulating his conservative viewpoints as a writer and editor in the 1980s for student publications at Columbia, where his views were in the minority. He once accused campus activists of “acting as a vigilante squad while avoiding the weight of their own actions.” Mr. Miller and Judge Gorsuch cut very different figures. But they were both once lonely conservatives in large liberal ponds, and their early writings reflect that. Judge Gorsuch, who graduated in 1988, was remembered fondly by those he battled on The Columbia Spectator’s op-ed page. Those warm feelings are perhaps a reflection of his era. The political debates on campuses have become more polarized. Not everyone is leaving school and less than a decade later championing dangerously nativistic policy from the White House. But, firebrands of Mr. Miller’s variety are becoming more common. Today, there’s a straight line from the politics of right-wing provocation that inspires college Republican groups to invite Milo Yiannopoulos to campus to the upper echelons of the White House. After all, some of the president’s top advisers — Stephen K. Bannon, Julia Hahn, Sebastian Gorka — used to count Mr. Yiannopoulos as a colleague at Breitbart News. The bomb-throwers aren’t just emboldened on college campuses, they’re in power. Of course, this is not the first time conservatives forged in the fires of elite institutions have ruled over Washington, nor is it the first time they’ve felt outnumbered on college campuses. William F. Buckley Jr.’s “God and Man at Yale,” published in 1951, famously captured the hostility he felt as an undergraduate in the late 1940s. But most of the postcollegiate conservatives I spoke to felt glad not to be on a campus right now. The incident at Middlebury College this month, in which demonstrators disrupted a lecture by the “Bell Curve” co-author Charles Murray, prompted a resurgence of debate in conservative circles about liberal students’ intolerance of ideas they disagree with. But that debate also has a flip side: What is life on the defensive doing to the conservative students? Last week, I went to a screening of a film by Rob Montz, a follow up to his documentary “Silence U: Is the University Killing Free Speech and Open Debate?” Like Mr. Montz, a 2005 graduate of Brown, some in the audience of about 30 had once been conservative- or libertarian-leaning students on overwhelmingly liberal campuses, and the location for the screening felt apropos: It was held in Washington’s Adams Morgan neighborhood, in a space where filmmakers and other creative types work. A framed front page of The Washington Post announcing Richard Nixon’s resignation decorated the room; on ground level was a feminist pop-up shop called the Outrage, selling “Nasty Women Unite” apparel. The film was the second part of a series Mr. Montz has been working on about political debate on campus. In the first, he returned to his alma mater to cover the fallout of protests that shut down an appearance by New York’s police commissioner Ray Kelly, in 2013; his latest examined the drama at Yale in 2015 over a lecturer’s email to students questioning the administration’s guidance on offensive Halloween costumes. Mr. Montz considers himself the beneficiary of a campus culture that fostered free debate. “I had a couple of public debates on race relations in America” at Brown, he recalled. As Mr. Montz tells it, he got destroyed in those debates, and it was a good thing. “It informed a lot of the way I think about race relations now,” he said. But being right of center on campus when Mr. Montz went to Brown — only a little over a decade ago — now feels remarkably changed. He’s met students who support Mr. Trump “because it’s cool to be hyper-reactionary, it makes them different,” he said. “An easy way to develop a reputation is to be super far-right. And they’re allowed to sit in their largely undercooked beliefs because they aren’t getting really serious pushback, they’re just getting garbage protest hysterics.”  Still, as headline-generating as the student provocateurs of the kind who organize lectures by Mr. Yiannopoulos might be, the college Republicans I spoke to said that the more typical conservative-leaning student still feels inhibited about expressing political views on campus. Kent Haeffner, president of the Harvard Republican Club, says that most of his fellow Republicans there aren’t outspoken. “There’s a good chunk of closeted conservatives that feel very suppressed,” he said. Mr. Haeffner tries to focus on how the group can engage constructively with the larger campus community, and he recognizes that there can be real, tangible advantages to being a conservative at a top university. “The folks that do come out of Harvard as conservatives, the ones that quote-unquote survive, they’re so much stronger for it,” he said. But it can be hard to find people open to hearing from them. Others feel this way, too. “It’s very difficult,” said Olivia Corn, president of the Cornell University College Republicans, who reported after the election that someone on campus shoved her to the ground and called her a racist. “I didn’t even support Donald Trump, that’s the worst part,” Ms. Corn says, noting that her organization endorsed Gary Johnson. J. P. Freire, a spokesman for Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, said his time at Cornell more than a decade ago made him “more fastidious about constructing my arguments and it made me more aware of what the other side of my argument would be.” There was another aspect to the experience: “I think that it did make me dig in a bit more when I’d see how flippantly people would treat people with my perspective.” Other Republican staff members on Capitol Hill describe a similar experience, and said they mostly kept quiet about their beliefs until they got involved in politics after graduation. While many, like Mr. Freire, have gone on to work in politics or the conservative media, he said that “there’s a danger of pigeonholing yourself” by being openly conservative on campus, limiting your interactions with professors and making it harder to break into industries where liberals tend to dominate, like academia and the media. Samuel Abrams, who got interested in conservative politics as a student at Stanford almost 20 years ago, found the experience “very lonely and isolating.” Now, as a professor at Sarah Lawrence College, he’s tried to be a resource for conservative students — or any student who would like to debate with him. Some of his former students are getting involved in law, others are involved in politics. It should bring young conservatives comfort. After all, today’s lonely campus conservative might just become tomorrow’s senior adviser to the president.