SCHOLARS of mass media long ago established the theory that part of a society’s bond comes from the shared experience of consuming the same news. We shape our worldview, our opinions — however different they are from one another — after reading about and watching many of the same things. We gain a sense of community, however false or fleeting. Even as social media and algorithms started changing all that, there remained media giants like The New York Times that gave millions of readers around the world a unified news experience. Or at least that’s how it used to be. By midyear, The Times will begin an ambitious new effort to customize the delivery of news online by adjusting a reader’s experience to accommodate individual interests. What readers see when they come to The Times will depend on factors like the specific subjects they are most interested in, where they live or how frequently they come to the site. Kinsey Wilson, executive vice president and editor for innovation and strategy, says the goal is an enriched experience that keeps the most important and compelling news at the center of the site — for everyone — but treats readers like individuals, with unique preferences and habits. “We need to address our audience one on one,” he says. Picture a home page where the dominant spots on the screen show the big news and feature stories, but much of the surrounding content is tailored to your own interests. More limited experiments are already underway. News alerts, among the primary uses of personalization right now, may be different depending on a particular reader’s location. On the home page, there’s a customized box called “Recommended for You” that lists articles Times data shows you haven’t yet read. But these are small lab tests compared with the plans editors have for a next-generation New York Times, one that shifts from monolithic to something more bespoke. Several ideas are being evaluated. Some, readers will choose, like signing up for alerts when a favorite columnist publishes. Others, The Times will enact on its own. For example, a story could be moved out of the lead position for a reader who has already seen it, or it could be kept in the lead longer for those who come to the site infrequently. Fans of particular subjects might see more of that content visible on their mobile device or home page. No matter what personalized features are developed, it will not change a reader’s access to all of The Times’s content — the stories, videos, photos, graphics and columnists. What will change is how visible those elements are. The goal, in other words, is to surface subjects tailored to individual readers without depriving them of that sense of a shared experience. Or without readers feeling they aren’t receiving the same hierarchy of news values that they once did and that everyone else is. Wilson says The Times is working affirmatively to make sure this doesn’t happen. To do that, he said the newsroom’s top editors will select a core of about 20 to 30 stories that will be easily visible to everyone (out of the roughly 200 pieces of content published daily). If people have the feeling they’re getting cheated out of content they had before, something didn’t go right. “We’re trying to be a better navigator in getting our readers to the content they want to find,” said Cliff Levy, a deputy managing editor involved in the project. “We’re not going to shortchange people.” Whether readers will agree is hard to predict. I suspect a significant percentage will see the benefits — especially those who already get much of their news through social media. But it’s worth remembering that the last two decades are filled with botched attempts at mass-media customization. Those early efforts were often saddled by poor technology and frustrated readers being required to click endless boxes to indicate their preferences, an annoyance to the few who bothered to undertake. But that wasn’t the only issue. Personalization can also leave readers feeling creepy about being “watched” by a company collecting data on their lives. It is the paradox of privacy: Someone might benefit from a weather alert in a city they’re visiting, but tell them their location is being tracked, and it’s a different feeling. The Pew Research Center captured this in a privacy study that offered people an inexpensive thermostat that would track their movements around the house, from the kitchen to bedroom, and share that data with the manufacturer. In return, the sensor would lower their heating bills. Even still, almost twice as many adults rejected the idea as accepted it. A Times reader who wrote recently would likely have been among those uneasy with the concept. Patricia Maher of Santa Cruz, Calif., complained about a current feature in The Times that uses personalization to suggest what stories a subscriber might want to read. I simply want to voice my alarm at the subscriber-tracking, data analysis email I just received. It is downright creepy for the paper to send readers such blatant evidence they are being carefully tracked. I am well aware that every click is counted. I don’t need to be reminded with an article count and illustrative pie chart detailing all of my activity at NYTimes.com. Whether Maher is among the many or the few is unknowable at this point, since the most significant efforts are still ahead. As The Times presses forward, however, I hope it will keep two thoughts in mind. First, make sure readers don’t feel they have landed full-force in a filter bubble that will prevent them from having those surprising, serendipitous encounters with great stories — stories they didn’t know they cared about. I know editors are aware of this issue, but I hope they execute boldly and noticeably on the challenge. Second, readers should be an active part of the process. They should be told when the changes begin in full and they should be enlisted in the effort — not just by active personalization like signing up for an email alert, which many already do, but by letting readers engage in a back-and-forth that leaves them helping to do the customizing. If readers feel they’re getting too much of a particular subject, let them scale it back. Think of Pandora radio, where the company does half the work by providing a stream of music but lets the listener give the thumbs up or down to specific songs, thus changing the algorithm. There is plenty to suggest that the same concepts can apply successfully to news. Americans are used to their world being customized around their needs. But they like to adjust the dials. I hope The Times will give them the chance to do that.