When Amanda Yeram was 17, she left her home in Southern Maine, and, following in her father’s footsteps, joined the Marines. “I was chasing my boyfriend, who had previously enlisted,” Yeram said. “I thought what a great adventure and opportunity to be with the one I love.” The couple soon married, in 2002. During the next three years, Yeram’s husband, James, was deployed twice in Iraq, while she stayed in the Marines, stationed at Camp Lejeune in Jacksonville, N. C. In 2006, after giving birth to a son, Yeram decided to leave the military. Shortly thereafter, James was reassigned from New River, N.C., to China Lake, Calif. In her new home, she suddenly found that “I had no connections, no sense of community,” she said. “I had a hard time relating to nonmilitary families around me.” It took her 10 months to find a job. Then, shortly after her daughter was born, her husband received another posting, to Camp Pendleton, Calif. “The struggle started again,” Yeram said. “I was stuck both emotionally and financially. I got really depressed because I was used to providing for my family and couldn’t any more.” Three years ago, on Facebook, Yeram learned about a bicycle-building event being hosted for children of military families by a group called Blue Star Families. “It was an amazing experience,” she said. “So I signed up to become a volunteer chapter director — and it changed my life.” She began as a volunteer and now is on staff, serving as as the organization’s business operations manager. She has learned how to effectively assist others — including military spouses and disabled veterans — and how to organize events and build a community around herself and others. Blue Star Families is a modest nonprofit organization founded in 2009 by military spouses. It receives no government funding, but punches well above its weight. Its 35 chapters around the world have engaged thousands of volunteers, who lead a wide range of programs to support military families. “When you’re in the military, you move so often and you’re remote from family and friends, and what you’re thinking about is so different from your nonmilitary neighbors,” said Kathy Roth-Douquet, Blue Star Families’ co-founder and chief executive, who is married to a retired Marine, and whose family moved nine times in 15 years. “Because of these things, you don’t have the kinds of bonds with a diverse set of people that are natural to how we solve our problems.” “That isolation is very fixable,” she added. Blue Star Families’ annual Military Family Lifestyle Survey has gained considerable influence among leaders in the armed forces and federal government. “They have been a game changer when it comes to understanding the warrior class in America and being able to give us the data on the issues that are prevalent among them,” said Patrick J. Murphy, a former under secretary of the Army. Many Americans don’t appreciate the strain that has been placed on military families since the 9/11 terrorist attacks or how actively troops are still being deployed. The war in Afghanistan is now the longest in American history. And around the globe, more than 150,000 troops are deployed in 150 countries protecting borders, sea lanes and underwater cables; fighting terrorism; guarding against a nuclear-capable North Korea; and much more. With the Trump administration seeking to augment American military capacity, it’s essential to understand and find better ways to mitigate the stresses on military families. The Blue Star Families survey is known for the level of detail it goes into and the candor it draws from military personnel. “The research is granular enough that it allows you to think of how we can strategically improve the well-being of military families without just throwing money at it at a time of constrained budgets,” said Michael O’Hanlon, who co-directs the Center on 21st Century Security and Intelligence at Brookings. The survey has intensified attention to issues that military analysts and the Pentagon say lacked a sense of urgency until recently. Here are some important findings of the 2016 survey, which was released in December: · 72 percent of military families feel the current “optempo” — the rate of military deployments, training and base duties — “exerts an unacceptable level of stress for a healthy work and family life.” · 42 percent of military families experienced more than six months of family separation in the previous 18 months. · 88 percent of military families feel the general public “does not understand sacrifices made by service members and their families.” · 52 percent of military spouses are not employed. · 57 percent of military families would not recommend military service to their children. · 66 percent of military families cannot obtain reliable child care. The data on the underemployment of military spouses was something of a revelation. It was widely understood that military pay and benefits are a top concern among military families. But the recognition that fewer than half of military spouses are employed — and that those who are often take jobs well below their qualifications and earnings potential — provides a clearer picture of the financial sacrifice military service entails. With median military pay in the mid-$40,000’s, most military families cannot achieve the American dream on a single income. The data on family stress has also caught many by surprise. “Even though we’ve cut back the troop presence in Afghanistan by 90 percent relative to peak, and in Iraq by 95 percent relative to peak,” O’Hanlon said, “there’s still enough little deployments — in Europe, Korea, Okinawa, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Syria, Turkey, naval deployments — that families are still feeling stressed and fatigued by the pace” of deployments. Part of the problem is that the current personnel system was “developed at a time when most of the people in the service were single,” said former Senator Jim Talent, a Missouri Republican who serves as a co-chairman, alongside Roth-Douquet, of a task force created by the Bipartisan Policy Center to  focus on defense personnel. Today’s military families think differently than those in the past. Roth-Douquet noted: “This year’s survey was the first time that family issues” like spousal employment, family stability and quality of life, and the impact of deployments on children “were top-five concerns for service members. It’s an important thing to understand about millennials.” And it revealed a vulnerability. Since the military has been an all-volunteer force, recruitment has drawn heavily on families with histories of service. In the Army, 83 percent of recruits have a close family member who served. What happens if military families are reluctant to recommend service to their children? We may soon find out. The Blue Star Families survey reports that 19 percent of service members plan to leave the military within two years and another 25 percent plan to leave within three to five years. Last year, 57 percent of active-duty military families said they would not recommend military service to their children, almost triple the figure of a generation ago. “Eighty percent of military spouses say that being a military spouse has hurt their careers,” said Roth-Douquet. “And for those who feel military service has hurt them, only a third are willing to recommend it.” Blue Star Families seeks to help in two important ways: first, by getting more Americans to understand, through its survey, what military life is really like for families; and second, by fostering stronger communities around military families to mitigate their isolation and other challenges. In recent years, the group’s data has helped inform policies and practices. For example, the Army’s Soldier for Life program not only helps veterans find employment and education after leaving the service, through partnerships with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation, the Schultz Family Foundation and the Teamsters, its employment transition programs also assist spouses, as well. Bill French, a retired Navy vice admiral who leads the Armed Services Y.M.C.A., says the survey has helped his organization perform its work of helping enlisted service members from the lowest five pay grades. “Their ages range from 17 years old to 26 or 27,” said French. “They make about $26,000 a year. Half of the folks in these pay grades are married, many with children.” The organization serves families on 57 military bases with a range of child care, youth and parenting programs, as well as food and toy distribution, and travel stipends to bring families together at holidays. “When our warriors are sent overseas, whether it’s ISIS or to solve Ebola in Africa, we need our men and women to have their heads in the game, and they can’t be worried about their spouses or kids at home,” said Murphy, the former under secretary of the Army. “When I was in Baghdad in Iraq in 2003 and it was 138 degrees, when these soldiers came in with divorce paperwork or their car was getting repossessed, they were not in the frame of mind they needed to be. And I had to make sure I got them straight and we took care of them. Having a team like Blue Star Families who are constantly checking where the heads and hearts of our military families are is critically important to our national security.” Some ideas being considered to help military spouses include introducing more stability in assignments, making it easier for them to get Department of Defense jobs, streamlining professional certification across state lines, and opening contracting opportunities. “These are not big-ticket items,” said Talent. “It’s a question of making the system more responsive. The department needs to refocus itself on the long term quality of life of the families who serve.” “This is one of those cases where everyone can really make a difference simply by being a good neighbor,” Roth-Douquet said. The vast majority of military families in the United States live off base, making them harder to identify and reach out to. Blue Star Families’ Neighbors program assists those who would like to meet other military families by recruiting them to be mentors, volunteers, employers or just friends. “If we can get people to come together at large scale, it will make all the difference,” she added. Amanda Yeram’s husband, James, is currently on a six-month deployment in Japan, but her experience is very different than in the past. “I could pity myself,” she said. “But I don’t hide inside anymore and build up that emotion. I go out and connect. Whether it’s deployment, a caregiving issue, depression, unemployment, we need to understand that we’re all going through something similar, and we need to build trust and cohesion.”