For decades, he had as much global influence as the secretaries of state and Treasury combined. He was greeted in foreign capitals with the pomp befitting a president. He sparked an international diplomatic crisis by aiding the shah of Iran’s quest to receive cancer treatment in New York. He rescued Chase Manhattan bank and helped rebuild a dying Wall Street real estate market by putting its headquarters downtown. He made commercially lucrative deals with despots and dictators, inspired fevered international conspiracy theories with his work for the Trilateral Commission, helped rescue New York City from bankruptcy when President Gerald Ford told it to drop dead (sort of), and gave away untold millions of dollars in support of the arts, medical research, historic preservation and other philanthropies. But, for me, David Rockefeller, who died this week at 101, will always be the man who served the second martini I ever drank in my life — and poured the better part of the third one all over my hand. His method of mixology was novel: a glass Corning teapot, with ice and mint in the infuser, and gin gently swirled. The whole assembly was brought up from under a butler’s table in his East 65th Street townhouse, where priceless art shared space with the hand-towels in the powder room. I had been summoned for drinks in early 1990, to discuss the fortunes of Mayor David Dinkins of New York, whose administration was then undergoing a public beating for fiscal imprudence. D.R., as David’s loyal aides always called him, had begun his public career as a secretary to Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia, and had helped save New York’s bacon by selling special municipal bonds in the 1970s. Now, he was advising Mayor Dinkins, and I was the 30-year-old City Hall bureau chief of The New York Times. The cocktail company was impressive, and included Chris Kennan, the son of George Kennan, one of the 20th century’s most important American diplomats. But my invitation owed more to an improbable family connection: My father’s older brother, my Uncle Stan, had known David and his wife, Peggy, for decades, because he was the longtime companion of one of David’s oldest friends and classmates from the progressive Lincoln School and Harvard: De Veaux Smith, who grew up next door to Thomas Edison in Llewellyn Park, N.J., and had worked as David’s aide at Chase, had blown his brains out in the Harvard Club in 1962, and my uncle had managed the mess. In the late 1970s, after Stan’s acting career fell apart in a haze of alcohol and depression, he went to work as estate manager for the Rockefellers, at their Hudson Pines Farm in Westchester County, their summer home at Seal Harbor in Maine and their island getaway on St. Barth’s. By his (possibly varnished) account, he helped make sure that Henry and Nancy Kissinger’s vegetables were not overcooked. One sunny afternoon, he served my parents and me tuna salad under a stairwell full of Monet’s water lilies. In the end, Stan was fired for drinking on the job — a reasonable decision when his assignment involved driving priceless Gauguins from Westchester to Manhattan. But a few years later, when my uncle was dying of emphysema, H.I.V. and pancreatic cancer, and I was sitting at his lonely bedside in the hospital, I received a Sunday morning call from D.R. He came visiting, in that grim November, with two giant pots of chrysanthemums from his private greenhouse. He made it clear that he wanted time alone with Stan, and closed the door. Later he said, “If we had only known sooner.” When Stan died, and our family had no idea where to hold a memorial service for a godless soul, David arranged for the whole thing to happen in the Rockefeller family’s own chapel, the Riverside Church in Manhattan, and dragooned its senior pastor as the celebrant. My grandfather, noting David’s old-money lockjaw accent, liked to say, “He don’t open his mouth enough when he talks.” But he opened his heart that day. He had terrible trouble with his feet, and wore padded shoes that looked like a combination of Reeboks and an overstuffed sofa. But, boy, did he get around. Until only a couple of years ago, he was a regular fixture in Bill Cunningham’s Sunday society photo essays in The Times. When he disappeared without explanation, I worried. In later years, I sometimes traded letters with D.R., but I know now that I was only one among the 150,000 names in the Rolodex that he kept in a stand-alone space in Room 5600, the Rockefeller family’s suite of offices on the 56th floor of 30 Rockefeller Plaza. Nevertheless, every single note was appended with a personal handwritten postscript, or an equally welcoming invitation. “If you were ever inclined to come by our house some evening again for a drink,” he wrote me in 1996, “we would love to see you…. Although I am still traveling a good deal, I am here most of the time and would be happy to hear from you.” It’s my loss that I never took him up on the offer. So here’s a belated toast to a man who, by his own understated admission, “led a rather interesting life.” Just so.