For over a decade I was a television producer who made independent autobiographical films on the side, but after my second child was born in 2007 with severe disabilities it was impossible to go back to TV work; the hours were too long and I needed to be there for him. However, when he was 3 I went back to school for an M.F.A. in film production and to make a documentary about our family’s experience of having a child with special needs. It’s called “Softening”; a short version of it titled “My Brother, Teddy” became an Op-Doc. The experience renewed my interest in making work about family; at least, it affirmed the value of it. Having children has transformed my creative life in ways that constantly surprise me. Sometimes I wish I could approach the world from a less personal perspective, but I can’t. Instead I try to make work that captures the poetry of the everyday and finds universal themes through my family’s experiences. Since “Softening,” I’ve been slowly working on a film about my daughters: Emma, 13, and my youngest child, Willow, who is 5. Over the years I’ve kept a record of my conversations with them, which range from funny observations to huge meaning-of-life type questions. This short film comes from that project but focuses specifically on the questions that Willow has asked me. Some questions she has asked only once. For example, one day she was in her car seat watching a crowd of pedestrians cross the street and said, as if noticing the outside world for the first time, “Why are there so many people who don’t know me?” Or out of the blue she’ll ask things like, “What does ‘kind’ mean?” or “Why do trees just stand there?” Other questions are a daily occurrence. Questions like, “Mom, what were you like when you were small?” and “When will it be my birthday?” In 2015, I spent a week at a film residency on a farm outside Toronto with my family. The cottage where we were staying was next to a huge gravel pit. Using an old 16 mm Bolex camera, I shot the girls playing there and hand-processed the film myself. I also recorded Willow, who was 3 at the time, reciting some of her questions. More recently, when I finally found time to make the film, I recorded her asking a new batch of her questions. Kids are endlessly curious and ask about how life works, the ineffable mystery of it, all the time. Their questions reflect that time between innocence and experience as they try to figure out who they are in relation to the world around them. One day the flow of questions will stop, but of course even as adults we’re still searching for the answers. There is a line from a T. S. Eliot poem that reads: “This is one moment,/But know that another/Shall pierce you with a sudden painful joy.” Seeing the world again through a child’s eyes is full of paradoxical moments of “painful joy.” I wanted this short film to capture that feeling. Just the other day Willow asked, “Why are you on your phone again, Mom?” and I said, “Sometimes you ask me something that is so beautiful I have to write it down.”