One day in mid-November, I followed a crowd of teenagers from Trump Tower to Washington Square Park in the pouring rain. They were protesting President Trump’s election and I was writing about them. In order to talk to as many kids as possible, I kept running ahead in the protest, falling behind as I walked with a group, then running ahead again. By the time I reached the park I was wet to the skin, but I could’ve run fifty more blocks. I was happier than I’d been in weeks. Since the election, a debate has emerged on the left over the meaning of self-care. As the writer Jordan Kisner notes in a recent essay at The New Yorker, the term in its current form originated in communities of color and queer communities, its usage exemplified by Audre Lorde’s statement that “Caring for myself is not self-indulgence, it is self-preservation, and that is an act of political warfare.” Now, especially in the runup to and aftermath of the recent election, self-care has entered the mainstream, as those who previously felt relatively comfortable in America suddenly feel anxious and in need of comfort. A variety of companies have capitalized on the cultural moment, using the term to sell luxury products, primarily to white women. Ms. Kisner quotes a recent sponsored Instagram post extolling the virtues of papaya: “I rub the skins on my face every morning and I have noticed a HUGE improvement in my complexion. #selfcare.” Unlike messages of self-care that come from activist or mental health communities, which often encourage social connection and attendance to basic needs, corporate self-care messages of the kind Ms. Kisner cites generally promote forms of relaxation. Baths are big, as are candles, blankets and lying down. The most work you’ll do as part of a modern-day, mainstream self-care regimen is rubbing those papaya skins on your face. It should come as no surprise that self-care, as coopted from black women and marketed largely to white women, has come to be synonymous with idleness. For white women, taking care of oneself has historically meant abstaining from work. When Charlotte Perkins Gilman experienced post-partum depression, her doctor prescribed the now-infamous “rest cure.” She was to “lie down an hour after each meal. Have but two hours’ intellectual life a day. And never touch pen, brush or pencil as long as you live.” This prescription made Gilman so much worse that she began to talk of suicide. Eventually she separated from her husband, traveled, got better and wrote “The Yellow Wallpaper,” a story about the horrors of lying in bed all day. Virginia Woolf was also prescribed the rest cure, also hated it, and also went on to write about it in disparaging terms, in “Mrs. Dalloway.” As a white woman, I’m suspicious of an idleness that’s historically been both reserved for us — nonwhite women have been far less likely to be able to avoid working — and forced upon us by men who dictated what our brains could handle. Also, chilling out just doesn’t work for me the way work does. I’ve never found a relaxation technique that relaxed me. I like yoga, but when it’s time to lie still in corpse pose my brain always starts to spin. Give me too many empty hours and I’ll see, if not women in the wallpaper, then danger around every corner — bankruptcy in my computer and death in the fridge. Far better for me to put my mind to use. The psychologist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi coined the term “flow” for the state of “being completely involved in an activity for its own sake.” In a state of flow, he says, “the ego falls away.” This is the best description I’ve come across for the feeling I have when I’m immersed in writing or reporting. I remember finishing a daylong project in Iowa City last year, ahead of the Iowa caucus, and realizing that all the worries that had entered the city with me had been pushed aside by the voices of the people I talked to, by the process of fitting them all together. To work, for me, is to care for the self by putting the self aside. It is a privilege to be able to use work in this way. I had the freedom to choose my career, and it keeps me challenged and engaged. For many Americans, work is not like this. Many Americans cannot access paid work at all, or work long hours for less than a living wage. Many, especially women and especially women of color, work at jobs that primarily require them to care for others; laying the self aside may not feel particularly relaxing if you’re constantly forced to put others first. For many, self-care, if available at all, is that which replenishes energy drained by work. Knowing all this, I want self-care through work to be a privilege women can ask for, and, if we are in a position to do so, advocate for on behalf of others. Some of the people who have cared for me the most in my life, who have helped me the most to care for myself, have been women who, at low moments for me, gave me exciting work to do and the time and space in which to do it. I remain incredibly grateful to them — specifically to my graduate thesis adviser and my boss at my first journalism job — and I hope I can offer to others the same thing they offered me. Work, of course, is not merely distraction, and part of making work function as self-care is considering its impact. Especially as someone perhaps less affected by the Trump administration than others, I’m interested in ways to make my work both self-care and other-care. Like Katherine Boo, I don’t believe journalists “give voice to the voiceless” — everyone has a voice, and one of the best things we can offer is our ability to listen. I am trying harder than ever to listen now. I also know that activists have long understood self-care as collective as well as individual. The November protest was heartening for me not merely because I was working hard but because the teenagers I was talking to — perhaps working with, arguably working for — were full of anger and bravery and joy. To work among them — to work, in a way, for them, as I work for anyone who wants to know and speak about the world — was to care for myself.