This month, a select group of eighth graders in New York City found out that they were being offered a spot at some of the nation’s best high schools, the eight “specialized” city public high schools that include Stuyvesant High School, Brooklyn Tech and Bronx Science. About 28,000 students took the multiple-choice test required for admission, and 5,078 did well enough to secure a place. This system, while it might seem meritocratic, in fact leads to a shocking inequity. Even though black and Latino students make up nearly 70 percent of public high school students in the city, they routinely represent only 10 percent of those offered admission to the specialized high schools. This year the city offered admission to only 524 black and Latino students. The numbers are even lower at some of the most desired schools, such as Stuyvesant, which has space for nearly 1,000 freshmen and offered admission to only 13 black students. And while some of the specialized schools do have a high percentage of Asian-American students, many low-income students from lesser-represented ethnic communities are also left out. The problem, which has grown worse in recent years, has to do with the way students are selected for these schools. The sole criterion is a student’s score on the multiple-choice admissions test. The traditional hallmarks of a great student — consistently excellent grades, critical analysis skills, leadership and even performance on other state-mandated tests — are all irrelevant under the admissions policy. The test has many quirks that experts have said make it inappropriate for use as a sole criterion for admission. For example, the material on the test is not taught in the city’s middle school classrooms; so it’s not as if students are being assessed on what they have learned in school over the years. It’s all about what they learn in test prep programs. This is pure arbitrariness. The flawed admissions policy, and the discriminatory results it yields, are the subject of a pending civil rights complaint my former colleagues at the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund and I filed with the United States Department of Education on behalf of a coalition of organizations representing black, Latino and Asian students. In any other context, this kind of approach would be widely condemned — imagine if a test to determine who could become a firefighter had little relation to the actual job and produced similar results. In fact, such hiring policies have been struck down by federal courts nationwide, including in New York City. Why is this happening in the largest and most diverse school district in the country? Part of this phenomenon has to do with a powerful narrative that has been woven — not about the test, but about the merit of black and Latino students. To be fair, many are concerned about the results and want to help more black and Latino students succeed. But their common starting point is trying to determine why more of those students do not score higher on the test. However well intentioned, they are asking the wrong question. By legitimizing test-only admissions, many well-intentioned people are (perhaps inadvertently) laying blame on the students who are hurt by the policy, implicitly suggesting that they do not work hard, that they need to improve and better demonstrate their academic merit, that the poor admissions results are a byproduct of poverty and failing middle schools and that there are simply not enough qualified black and Latino students to justify more than a handful of admission offers. The resulting narrative of inferiority has had a paralyzing effect on policy. While running for mayor, Bill de Blasio criticized the admissions policy and called for change. Many current and former staff members in his administration have denounced it as well. And a number of reports have provided a road map for change. But so far his administration has merely adopted predictable and feckless interventions that not only have been proven ineffective by the latest admissions numbers but also insult the intelligence and dignity of black and Latino students: expansion of test prep courses, outreach to encourage more black and Latino students to take the test, expansion of prekindergarten, making slight changes to the test and administering it on a more convenient day in certain middle schools. If the administration is truly committed to admitting black and Latino students who deserve to be in specialized high schools, it must find the courage to disrupt the status quo and ask the harder questions. For example, why not ask how the schools could do a better job — not of expanding or improving the applicant pool, but of recognizing the talent we know exists among black and Latino students? What if the school district (still under significant mayoral control) and the State Legislature (which mandates a test-only policy for three of the schools) started from scratch to create an admissions process that rewards those who do well in middle school? What if school officials and the public actually believed there are many talented black and Latino students who can succeed in an elite setting? What if they were willing to create a process that recognized their merit? These are the big questions. Asking these types of questions will help to shift the false, prevailing narrative that only a few black and Latino students are good enough for the city’s best high schools. It will help New Yorkers get to some real solutions and a fairer process — not only for those students, but for everyone.