This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. The Washington Tidal Basin, the reservoir that sits between the Jefferson Memorial and Washington Monument, is usually jammed with visitors on a weekend morning in late March. They come to see the cherry blossoms that surround the basin in a flush of pink. On Sunday, however, the area was “basically deserted,” as the website Cherry Blossom Watch noted. Why? There wasn’t yet much to see. Washington has just had its warmest winter on record (with a February that was warmer than an average March). The warmth brought many cherry blossoms to the cusp of a very early bloom, at which point they’re delicate. And when a cold spell came last week, it killed many, leaving them wilted and brown. “This is something that has never happened in the 105-year history of cherry blossoms in D.C.,” Mike Litterst of the National Park Service told The Washington Post. The real-world consequences of climate change are accelerating. The Great Plains is suffering its worst drought in a century, hurting many farmers. Pollen counts are rising, aggravating allergies. Warming oceans have killed huge sections of Australia’s Great Barrier Reef, turning their glorious colors to a bleached white that’s as dispiriting as a wilted brown cherry blossom. Just a couple of miles away from the Tidal Basin, on the other end of the Washington Mall, Neil Gorsuch had his second day of confirmation hearings yesterday. For a summary, I recommend coverage from The Times, Slate and Scotusblog. You can also listen to NPR’s Nina Totenberg. Climate change hasn’t been a major focus of the hearings. Yet I expect that the climate will end up being a large part of Gorsuch’s legacy if he joins the Supreme Court. He could be the deciding vote on pollution cases that will come before the court in the near future. Longer term, when the country next has a president who takes climate change seriously, many efforts to fight it are likely to end up before the court. Gorsuch is extremely conservative, and the best working assumption is that he will be hostile to environmental regulation. But that’s not the only possibility. “Gorsuch’s record on environmental cases is sparse,” Patrick Parenteau of Grist has written. “His decisions generally reflect the views of a conservative jurist, but not a particular animosity toward environmental regulations. Plus he’s an avid fly-fisher, which surely counts for something.” Ultimately, some influential conservatives will surely decide they care about the health of the planet. Right?