DELAWARE, Ohio — The dispatches from my small Ohio college town ask for the name of the easiest math professor, if any girl is available to “cuddle,” what’s for dinner in the cafeteria (lasagna, but like contraband the crushed red pepper is kept behind the counter) and what one should do when one no longer wants to live. As an English professor, I am here to teach my students literature. Each day, for 90 minutes, we gather to discuss short stories and short essays, unique writing forms, a beautiful sentence. I think I am also here to model bravery. I talk openly about my own mental health problems — anxiety, depression, a bout of suicidal ideation when I was 13 — and the stability I have found through treatment. Sometimes I admit that depression still feels like a daily struggle, a nub that snags at the tip of my brain. And at night, I log into Yik Yak, the social media app, and read what students have written — voyeuristically, and at times, I worry, unethically — pulsing with urgency out from the heart of our college campus, only three blocks from my home. “I feel so alone tonight.” “Living feels, lately, like a choice.” “I don’t know why, but I just want to kill myself.” Yik Yak is best known for letting you communicate anonymously with people in your area: for hookups, for gossip, for local news or conversation. But it’s also known as a platform for bullying, sexual harassment, racism. In 2014, not long after I finished my stint as a visiting fellow at Colgate University, hundreds of students there protested a flood of racist posts on the campus’s Yik Yak site. Many colleges have had to decide whether to block the app or to let students say what they will under the banner of free speech, as Colgate ultimately did. I hate no software like I hate this software. The first time I looked at it, I was in graduate school, no older than 24 but already feeling the vocabulary of youth evolve more quickly than I could acquire it. What was a Yak, exactly? The posts were mostly about dorm parties, which fraternity had the best jungle juice, and the names of downtown bars that served underage students. I was grateful to be out of a dormitory, hoped to never return to a fraternity and was happily of age. I deleted the app nearly as quickly as I’d installed it. But last February, when one of our students died in the creek that runs parallel to campus, falling eight feet from the creek’s embankment into the shallow water below, I re-downloaded the app. Nineteen years old, he was a freshman, a soccer player, celebrating his Friday night like so many others. The morning they found his body, I felt an enormous swell of concern for my students, who I feared might take greater comfort in anonymity than in the consequence of transparency. Gone from Yik Yak were the posts about hooking up, the size of breasts, the poor Wi-Fi connection. Instead, a platform I’ve come to associate with the gutter of young humanity — more than sexual openness, but sexual degradation, lewdness, the grotesque — had blossomed with empathy, advocacy, tenderness. “I have never in my life felt so sad,” a user with the handle “umbrella” wrote, “like I don’t even want to live.” “Staring at a razor,” another user wrote, “trying to work up the courage.” Then, “Tell me your real name so we can talk in person.” And “It’s going to be O.K. This is awful but don’t make it worse.” And “If you need someone to talk to, counseling services and the chaplain’s office is available 24/7.” I screened these posts in futility. At practically 30, I was too removed from their world to be of any help; I pretend I know their lives, but I can only remember how it felt to feel so alone, how nothing amplifies a grief like the insistence of another grief. Ohio is a tricky place. The land itself is beautiful: sprawling prairie and caverns that dip deep into the earth. But if there is one thing I can say about Ohio, it is that nowhere I’ve lived possesses such a sense of transitoriness. Never have I seen so many 18-wheelers. The roads seem less like roads than interconnected pads of money strapped down to vehicles, crates of humidifiers and entertainment sets and steam vacuums and Ikea furniture. Accent tables. Budweiser beer. Always there is the reminder that the world lives somewhere else. Our county is vibrant, and yet we are surrounded by closing coal mines and empty factories. What is not collapsing is sprouting strip malls, tanning salons, another gym. Ohioans are also dying from opioid overdoses at a higher rate than anywhere else in the country, which is truly saying something. At least 23 Ohioans die from heroin overdoses each week — so many that some coroner’s offices are requesting cold-storage trailers to use as makeshift morgues. Ohioans take their lives primarily by guns, then by hanging, then by poison. Between 2000 and 2015, more than 20,000 Ohioans died by suicide. One every seven hours. A Columbus Dispatch investigation found that the youngest were 8 years old. So who can blame my students for trying to connect, even if anonymously? Over the past decade, I’ve worked at four colleges, and everywhere is the same: counseling offices are hard to get to, their clinicians overwhelmed, their hours limited and the implications of using them — of exposure and prescriptions and hasty diagnoses — are things only to be feared. Years ago, a student came to my office to tell me she was planning to kill herself, that she’d rid herself of all her belongings, even giving up her cat, and I asked her to wait while I phoned counseling services. The voice mail said the office closed at 3 and would be open the next day at noon. I looked at the student, who told me, “I don’t think I will be alive by then.” We called the hospital together. I waited beside her until the paramedics came. A friend who works at a campus in Washington, D.C., recently told me that one of his students stood up abruptly and threatened to stab everyone in the room. Another told me of her student, who did exactly that, except instead of a classroom, he moved through an apartment complex. He’d been too ashamed, he wrote her from prison, to ever seek professional help. Yik Yak is often the subject of legitimate concern and criticism. But this app and its users have also created an unlikely safety net. Beyond the lessons I can give my students — in the classroom or outside it — mining a smartphone app for their desperation can feel like the most helpful and least hopeless thing I can do. This is not, of course, how we should be monitoring the health of a student body. This is not how we should be ensuring the safety of our children. But in the absence of anything better, late at night on the app, I’ve decided to engage. I adopt user names and write to them. “It’s going to be O.K.,” I say, among the smattering of smut. “There’s someone you can talk to. You can talk to me.” And, occasionally, they do.