This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Today is a big day in the House of Representatives — and for millions of Americans at risk of losing their health insurance. House Republicans are planning to bring up their health care bill for a vote, and it’s not clear whether the bill will pass. A quick summary: The bill would take away health insurance from an estimated 24 million people and raise costs for many older Americans. It would channel the savings into large tax cuts for the affluent. House leaders considered late changes to the bill Wednesday night, which would worsen it even further by cutting benefits for mental health services and pregnancy, among other things. And the leaders won’t wait for a full analysis of the changes by the Congressional Budget Office before voting today. Democrats and a few moderate Republicans — as well as groups representing doctors, nurses, hospitals, retirees and patient groups — oppose the bill, because of its general terribleness. Some conservative Republicans also oppose the bill, because it retains a larger government role in health care than they believe wise. But most Republicans support the bill. To pass, it needs at least 215 of the 237 House Republicans to vote for it. (A bill usually needs 218 votes, but five House seats are vacant and a Democrat may miss the vote in the wake of his wife’s death.) Some Republicans who have expressed skepticism may ultimately yield to party loyalty, so don’t take it too literally when you hear about members “leaning no.” There’s even disagreement about who’s a yes and who’s a no. Many observers think the bill’s chances are close to 50-50. It’s legitimate political drama, with a vote that could go well into the night. The Republicans are struggling to pass a bill because they haven’t been honest about health policy, as Josh Barro writes in Business Insider. The bill’s incoherence reflects their dishonesty. In a similar vein, I’ve written that Obamacare is moderate enough to have painted Republicans into a corner. A substantially more conservative approach necessarily involves taking health care away from people. The Republican bill would not only undo much of Obamacare. It would also substantially cut Medicaid, a program that insures poor people as well as many elderly and disabled who aren’t poor. Stephanie Armour of The Wall Street Journal has a good explainer. Margot Sanger-Katz notes that a straight repeal of Obamacare would take health insurance from many people — but not as many as this bill would. In a Times Op-Ed today, Jared Bernstein and Ben Spielberg explain that late changes to the bill, intended to shore up conservative support, are likely to have the opposite of their announced intention: They will make it harder for Medicaid recipients to work. Jonathan Chait of New York magazine argues that Mitch McConnell, the Republican Senate leader, just wants the bill to go away, which means it may not become law even if it passes the House. But if it fails in the House, it certainly won’t become law. And Topher Spiro explains how citizens can still have an influence on the debate by calling their Congress members. Yes, calls to Congress really do matter.