I received many emails and comments from readers on my last column about The Times’s efforts to better tailor the presentation of its content toward individual preferences. At the suggestion of several of you, I asked Kinsey Wilson, the executive vice president of product and technology and editor for innovation and strategy, to respond to some of your concerns. Here is what he wrote in its entirety. Thank you all for expressing your views, and thank you, Kinsey, for addressing reader questions. The efforts Liz wrote about are in the very early stages of development. But, it is important to note that this does not signal any change in our editorial values or in our understanding of what readers have long told us they cherish about The New York Times. A comment from “Joan P.” of Chicago captures beautifully the sentiment of many readers: “I want to be pushed out of my comfort zone. I want to discover new interests, learn about places where I don’t live, people I’ve never heard of. I want my peripheral vision to catch site of a story and get intrigued.” That, in many ways, is the essence of The Times. There are a number of principles that will guide this effort: Every subscriber will always have access to every story. Every reader will get the same rundown of the most important stories of the day (or see the same “front page,” if you will). Variety, serendipity and a sense of shared experience will continue to guide the layout. Creating personalized filter bubbles is the antithesis of what The Times stands for. But, would you like to know when a favorite columnist just published his or her latest piece? Would you like the option of following a topic you’re passionate about? Would you like to save a story you saw on your phone for later reading on your desktop? Or, as Heather Addison said in response to Liz’s column, would you like to be able to remove The Daily Briefing from the top of the home screen, if you’re not a fan of that particular feature? These are the kinds of things we envision testing to see if we can improve the experience of reading The Times. All with input from readers. “Personalization” — Liz’s term for this, not ours — is a fraught concept, particularly at a time of heightened concern about how news is filtered and disseminated. Finding ways to make it more convenient to read The Times and easier to discover the enormous variety of stories we publish, without missing anything of import is the only goal. — Kinsey Wilson