The Florida Senate recently passed a bill intended to make its already robust Stand Your Ground law even more friendly to people who say they killed in self-defense. Under the current law, someone in this situation can avoid a trial if he proves at a pretrial hearing that he was acting in reasonable fear of death or great bodily harm. The new Republican-sponsored bill would flip the burden of proof. It would make the prosecution responsible for proving that someone who used deadly force instead of retreating from an attack was not behaving reasonably. If the prosecution could not do so, the killer would walk free. Supporters say this legal innovation will give important extra protection to Floridians who defend themselves from an imminent danger. But it’s not that simple. We live in a nation in which the legal boundaries of civilian self-defense are expanding, but in ways that, because of biases, benefit some groups and leave others behind. The Florida Senate bill and a companion bill that the Florida House is considering would contribute to that pattern. The American legal system’s handling of violent self-defense has long favored white, property-owning men. Nonwhite, female, poor or gender-nonconforming people have always been more likely to be punished for defending themselves and less likely to see the courts come to their aid when they are harmed. We do not have to look too deeply into the past to find examples: Many states disarmed freed black people in the wake of the Civil War. Many “race riots” involved heavily armed whites wreaking havoc on black communities. Although more than 4,000 black men, women and children were lynched from 1877 to 1950, Congress failed to pass a bill that would have specifically punished lynching and mob violence. Many whites on both sides of the Mason-Dixon line believed that lynching was necessary to protect white women from predatory black men. The attitudes that fuel these injustices are not relics of the past. The Journal of Personality and Social Psychology recently published a study documenting the way in which people perceive black men as larger and stronger and thus more threatening than they actually are. Here’s how these biases, well documented in contemporary social science research, play out in a courtroom: The legitimacy of a defendant’s claim of self-defense depends on the average person’s perception of the “reasonableness” of that claim. This means defendants must convince the court that they were truly — reasonably — in fear for their lives in the moment when they used violence. But the concept of “reasonable fear” is anything but value-neutral. Courtrooms are filled with people — judges, jurors, lawyers and witnesses — whose perceptions are shaped by the prejudices and implicit biases of our culture. The case of Marissa Alexander, a black Floridian who said she fired a warning shot to fend off an attack from her estranged husband, is a heartbreaking example. Ms. Alexander claimed she was trying to protect herself after a fight and after her husband told her, “If I can’t have you, nobody will.” Her bullet went into a wall and her husband was unharmed. Ms. Alexander was denied the immunity of the Stand Your Ground law and charged with aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. Why? According to State Attorney Angela Corey, Ms. Alexander “was not in fear” when she fired her weapon, she was “angry.” In 2012 she received Florida’s mandatory minimum sentence of 20 years in prison. Her conviction was overturned on appeal in 2013. As she awaited a new trial, she negotiated a plea agreement, but still served three years in jail and two confined to her home. Her plight cannot be separated from widespread perceptions of domestic-violence survivors as intrinsically irrational and assumptions that black women are “strong” rather than vulnerable. Given the prevalence of these stereotypes, it is highly unlikely that the added deference the Florida Senate bill gives to killers claiming self-defense would benefit women like Ms. Alexander. In fact, it could very well worsen domestic violence by providing abusers more legal leeway to “shoot first, ask questions later,” knowing that if prosecutors didn’t prove that they did not act in response to a reasonable fear, they would not face trial. Unsurprisingly, Florida homicides are up significantly since 2005, the year the first Stand Your Ground law was passed. Similar laws in 32 other states have been linked to racial inequities in criminal justice. We live in a country with more guns than people, and laws like Florida’s help us justify a culture of anxiety and intimidation where conflicts that might have been settled peacefully end in tragedy. The burden of this shift falls on people who are already marginalized. While some Americans enjoy growing legal protections around the use of deadly weapons, too many are left out in the cold and more vulnerable than ever to the deadly impulses of their fellow citizens.