Republicans seem to have an evil genius for tone-deafness when it comes to women. On Thursday, a photograph that was widely circulated on Twitter showed a room packed with white men cutting a deal to eliminate maternity care and mammograms from the package of essential benefits that insurers are required to provide in the Republican bill to replace the Affordable Care Act. There were some women out of camera range, including Kellyanne Conway, the White House counselor. Earlier in the day, Senator Pat Roberts, Republican of Kansas, made an ill-judged quip that he quickly had to apologize for: “I wouldn’t want to lose my mammograms,” he said to a reporter from Talking Points Memo. And Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, noted during his daily briefing Thursday, “Well, I think if you’re an older man, you can generally say you’re not going to need maternity care.” Indeed. What’s essential is in the eye of the beholder, and the deciders here are overwhelmingly men. They’re not at risk if these benefits are dropped from required coverage (with the rare exception of male breast cancer). The White House and Republican leadership agreed to cut the benefits as part of a last-ditch attempt to woo enough conservatives to support the bill. Even before today’s debate, women’s health care had emerged as one of the most polarizing — and politically incendiary – touchstones of the Trump presidency. Women across the country, mobilized by Planned Parenthood and other groups, flooded town halls to berate members of Congress about plans to repeal Obamacare. The Women’s March on Washington has made health care a rallying cry. The Democratic determination to filibuster Neil Gorsuch’s Supreme Court nomination is motivated in part by its base’s concerns about his potential stance on abortion. The bill would also cut federal funding for Planned Parenthood, which says it provides preventive care services and screenings to 1 in 5 American women. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that cutting off federal funding for Planned Parenthood would reduce access to birth control for many women and result in thousands of additional Medicaid births. In a Quinnipiac poll released Thursday, the majority of American voters opposed this provision, though the majority of Republicans approved. American women are not unanimous on this score — conservative women opposed to abortion have denounced Planned Parenthood. But when a question in the Quinnipiac poll explained that federal funding to the group is used only for non-abortion services, 80 percent of voters overall, and 60 percent of Republicans, opposed cutting off funds to the group. The political perils of men proclaiming their thoughts on what women ought to say or how they ought to receive medical care should be clear enough to the Republicans. There is the now-infamous scene in the Senate of Elizabeth Warren being silenced, when male colleagues were later allowed to read the same letter from Coretta Scott King criticizing Jeff Sessions during the debate over his confirmation as attorney general. Earlier, Republicans reeled from the “war on women” label in the 2012 election, when Representative Todd Akin, Republican of Missouri, talked about victims of “legitimate rape” not becoming pregnant. There’s no doubt that continuing instances of powerful men demeaning or undermining women have helped to galvanize liberal women. So far, the Republican attempt to repeal and replace Obamacare has been stymied by a combination of conservative Republicans who feel the bill does not go far enough and Republicans who fear it goes too far. And yet. Despite widespread social media outrage and activism, the political damage from such moments can be fleeting. Many people believed the “Access Hollywood” tape would doom Donald Trump’s candidacy. The obliviousness on display Thursday caused a tweet-storm; we don’t know yet whether that storm will do lasting damage.