This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Sometimes, democracy works. Throughout the day on Thursday, members of Congress spoke publicly about the constituent calls their offices had received on the Republican health care bill. Those calls overwhelmingly opposed the bill. Thomas Massie, a Kentucky Republican, said he’d received 275 calls against the bill and only four in favor. “Why are we voting on this?” he tweeted alongside those totals. Dan Donovan, a New York Republican, said the calls to his office were running about 1,000-to-1 against the bill. Dan Kildee, a Michigan Democrat, tweeted that his tally was 1,739 to 73 and retweeted similarly lopsided counts from other Democrats. This outpouring showed that people on the political left and in the center have the ability to match the energy of the Tea Party (just as Ezra Levin, Leah Greenberg and Angel Padilla urged in a recent Op-Ed). It also showed how unpopular this bill is. Republican House leaders tried to rush it through, before people could learn what was in it. But those leaders didn’t move fast enough. A mere 17 percent of Americans approve of the bill, according to a new Quinnipiac poll, with 56 percent opposed. In today’s polarized political climate, ideas that are supported by a party’s leadership rarely command such meager support. But this bill is truly awful — taking coverage away from millions of people, while raising costs for many others — and the word has evidently gotten out. Liberal, moderate and conservative experts, as well as groups representing hospitals, doctors, nurses, patients and retirees, oppose it. Still, the fight isn’t over. President Trump has called for a vote on Friday, and Republicans face intense pressure from their leaders to support the bill. They’re hoping partisan loyalty can overcome public opinion and policy substance. For more on the health care crack-up, you can read columns by David Brooks and Paul Krugman today, as well as this piece by policy expert Sarah Lueck.