The American Health Care Act, Paul Ryan’s Obamacare repeal bill, seems to be on thin ice after Mr. Ryan pulled it from a House floor vote on Friday for lack of votes. But the priorities and passions that gave it shape are still very much alive and at work within Republican ranks. The bill landed with a thud when first released on March 6. Within 48 hours, groups representing hospitals, doctors, nurses, nursing homes and the elderly announced their opposition. Moderate Republican senators called for changes to soften the likely coverage losses, particularly those caused by rollback of the Medicaid expansion. Freedom Caucus zealots (and their right-wing think tank backers) complained that it wasn’t harsh enough. Democrats can’t assume that the impasse will last. Republicans have pushed themselves through seven years of denunciation and dozens of (vetoed) repeal votes to destroy the Affordable Care Act “root and branch.” It’s possible that a revised version of the bill will someday squeak through the House and even pass the Senate. The Freedom Caucus’s absolutist demands have obscured a more fundamental point on which it and the Republican leadership agree: downsizing and hollowing out Medicaid. Andy Slavitt, former acting administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, warned in a tweet before the Ryan bill came out: “Don’t get distracted by exchanges. The big issue is dramatic cuts in Medicaid to pay for huge tax cuts.” Staring into the abyss of Republican intentions that produced this bill, a Democrat might daydream: What if there were a Republican bill that did not repeal the A.C.A.’s revenue sources, did not repeal the Medicaid expansion and left states free to maintain the current marketplace structure? In fact, there is such a bill. It was introduced in January by four Republican senators: Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, Susan Collins of Maine, Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia and Johnny Isakson of Georgia. It’s called the Patient Freedom Act (known informally as Cassidy-Collins), and it was almost entirely ignored by Republican leadership. The bill is cast as a federalist compromise. It is flawed, but it could provide the basis for a deal between Democrats and Republicans. In Cassidy-Collins, states can choose between the existing A.C.A. marketplace structure (at 95 percent of current funding) and an alternative structure, centered on government-funded health savings accounts, to be used in a deregulated market where catastrophic plans feature prominently. Access to the subsidy pot would be extended to include higher-income individuals, weakening subsidies for lower-income people. In states that chose this option, the A.C.A.’s Essential Health Benefits — required features of any plan — would be repealed, as would the individual and employer mandates. States could also use the funded health savings accounts option to replace the Medicaid expansion. States have two other options: They can choose to reject federal funding entirely and give up on the whole A.C.A. project or seek “innovation waivers” to devise their own federally funded program. Senate Democrats should engage with the Cassidy-Collins sponsors and other Republican senators who have expressed qualms about the Ryan proposal. Many of those senators are in states that embraced the A.C.A. Medicaid expansion, collectively slashing the ranks of their uninsured by 45 percent. But they generally call for delaying Medicaid’s phaseout, not stopping it. Even the Republican governors in states that embraced the A.C.A.’s Medicaid expansion, posing as champions of its beneficiaries, floated an alternative plan that left expansion states with a Catch-22: either accept per capita caps on the federal Medicaid contribution, or give up enhanced federal funding for the expansion’s beneficiaries. Left to their own devices, the Senate moderates are likely to prove equally limp champions of the expansion, or of the federal commitment to making health insurance affordable for all Americans. This is why it’s urgent for Democrats to act now. If a quorum of three or more of this demurring dozen is to block these destructive changes — and defy the president — they need an alternative path. Democrats can provide it by working with Senators Cassidy and Collins, and others who wish to devote Obamacare-level resources to extending coverage. Of course they will have to overcome some natural aversion. Allowing states to junk the A.C.A.’s coverage rules, channel subsidies through health savings accounts (which generally work only for people with significant resources), distribute a reduced subsidy pot to wealthier individuals or opt out of subsidizing coverage may strike many as a poison pill. But Republican governors and legislatures that wish to do these things can do them right now, with the exception of opting out of subsidizing coverage entirely. The A.C.A. allows states to seek innovation waivers from the Department of Health and Human Services to remake their marketplaces, proposing alternatives to the law’s coverage rules, subsidy formulas and employer and individual mandates. The state must show that the alternative scheme will cover as many people as Obamacare would, as comprehensively and at comparable cost. With Tom Price as the secretary of Health and Human Services, conservative state governments could doubtless win approval for any plan they proposed. Cassidy-Collins makes a show of pitting rival ideological models against each other — but it also preserves the A.C.A.’s waiver provision. To improve the bill, Democrats could soften that binary choice and open the innovation waiver channel wider, loosening H.H.S. oversight. Health care scholars on the left and right have suggested that such a “superwaiver” compromise is the only way to end the parties’ ideological war over health insurance access. Ultimately, both sides need a deal. The A.C.A. has endured relentless Republican defamation and outright sabotage — most notably defunding of a crucial risk-adjustment program. No benefit program can withstand perpetual assault from one of our two major parties. On the other hand, no party in its right mind takes steps to uninsure tens of millions of constituents. If the Ryan plan founders, the individual insurance market may very well collapse in the uncertainty. The Trump administration has already taken several measures certain to depress enrollment. While a nuclear blame war will inevitably ensue, the administration and Congress will be forced to take steps to shore up the market. At that point, perhaps both sides will stagger toward a health care truce — driven in part by the president’s craving to validate his core brand as a deal maker. And there will be Cassidy-Collins, pointing the way toward a superwaiver solution: federal funding for states to take and try to make health insurance affordable for all their residents, by what means they will. This article has been updated to reflect news developments.