“I, for example,” says the nameless narrator in Fyodor Dostoevsky’s “Notes From Underground (1864),” “would not be the least bit surprised if suddenly, out of the blue, amid the universal future reasonableness, some gentleman of ignoble or, better, of retrograde and jeering physiognomy, should emerge, set his arms akimbo, and say to us all: ‘Well, gentlemen, why don’t we reduce all this reasonableness to dust with one good kick, for the sole purpose of sending all these logarithms to the devil and living once more according to our own stupid will!’ That would still be nothing, but what is offensive is that he’d be sure to find followers: that’s how man is arranged.” The musings of Dostoevsky’s hero certainly seem pertinent now — not just because of Donald Trump’s rise to the White House but also in light of the populist sentiment and politics emerging in other parts of the world. But for all their mocking, jovial tone, the underground man’s observations have more serious and far-reaching implications. For, after all, what he tells us here is the story of a disastrous historical blindness. For quite a while now we in the West have been operating under certain cultural assumptions about what it means to be human: that human beings are driven by a rational “pursuit of happiness,” that they choose — again, rationally — what is best for them and what contributes to their well-being, both individual and collective. Thanks in part to this Enlightenment heritage, we’ve come to assume that history is a progression toward more inclusion, mutual understanding and respect, tolerance and acceptance and that bigotry, xenophobia, intolerance and racism are doomed to disappear as a matter of “historical necessity.” For history, Hegel has taught us (and we’ve rarely challenged this teacher), is nothing but the gradual unfolding of rationality in the world. These assumptions are reflected in the way mainstream philosophy has come to construct the human subject. What defines us is primarily our capacity for rational thinking; we always use our reason to make decisions, to relate to the others and the world around us, to conduct our lives. Granted, we still have our emotions, we are capable of feelings and passions, but somehow, in our pursuit of the philosophical project, these aspects of our makeup are given a back seat. They are not really what we are; we are fundamentally “rational agents.” This presumption has its benefits. For the economic and social behavior of such agents can be predicted — indeed, it can be shaped, stimulated, even engineered. Not only is it possible to know that rational agents will buy a product, but thanks to certain marketing devices they will be compelled to do so. If modern capitalism is to be considered successful, it’s because, at its core, it relies heavily on a hyper-rationalistic understanding of the human subject. And yet what if this is all wrong and we’ve been caught in a blind spot? What if reason is not the driving force of human history and, just as often, we act irrationally, out of resentment, anger, spite, frustration, envy, even out of self-destructive impulse? What if there is even such a thing as the pursuit of unhappiness? Or, in the underground man’s own words, “What if it so happens that on occasion man’s profit not only may but precisely must consist in sometimes wishing what is bad for himself”? What if we in fact take delight in destruction? “I’m certain that man will never renounce real suffering, that is, destruction and chaos,” proclaims Dostoevsky’s hero in one of his more philosophical moments. In reality, the hyper-rationalism we inhabit and embrace relies on an extreme simplification of what we really are. It is more a caricature than an actual description. And philosophy should have known better: From Diogenes of Sinope and Augustine to Pascal, from Dostoevsky, Schopenhauer and Leopardi to Nietzsche, Mishima and Cioran, there has been a long tradition of philosophizing on the human abyss. If man is a complex animal, mankind is an even more complicated beast, with many layers and regions, one more irrational than the next. The human is a knot of contradictions and opposing drives: reason and unreason; wisdom and recklessness; faithlessness and mysticism; logic and imagination. We feed on exact science as much as we do on myths, on fictions and fabulations. We can die for others or let them perish in the cold; we can create extraordinary things only to enjoy their utter destruction; human society can be paradise and hell at one and the same time. In the past century, philosophy has mostly abandoned the effort to account for this complexity, and so has the data-driven age that has blossomed in its wake. We’ve become masters of conformity, empirical evidence and science. We read the books of Pascal, Nietzsche, Dostoevsky and the other thinkers of the abyss, if we ever do, in the way we look at ancient coins: as curiosa, interesting remnants from times past, not as something that can feed us today. They have no value when it comes to helping us make better sense of ourselves. It’s as though we have become more Cartesian than Descartes; we refuse to have anything to do with that which is not exceedingly clear and distinct; if something defies the usual explanations and seems mysterious, then it “smacks of religion.” If a problem unsettles us, but it’s not solvable in strictly linguistic, logical or empirical terms, we deem it a “false problem” and move on. Today, it is considered unrigorous and unprofitable to talk of matters of the human heart — that obscure little thing that, more than logic or arguments, makes people act and live and die. The main reason we don’t engage with the abyss, however, is not necessarily mental laziness. Most of the time, it is sheer fear. For, as Nietzsche warned, if you look intently into an abyss, the abyss will start looking back. Dostoevsky — socialist, political prisoner, addicted gambler, epileptic, reactionary thinker and visionary artist — did plenty abyss-gazing and his testimony is overwhelming. It is clear “to the point of obviousness,” he confesses in “A Writer’s Diary,” that “evil lies deeper in human beings than our socialist-physicians suppose; that no social structure will eliminate evil; that the human soul will remain as it has always been; that abnormality and sin arise from that soul itself; and, finally, that the laws of the human soul are still so little known, so obscure to science, so undefined, and so mysterious, that there are not and cannot be either physicians or final judges.” When the hyper-rationalist model fails, it fails spectacularly. In the American election, reason gave way to fear, resentment, hate and spite. For the most part, “rational agency” was nowhere to be found. What seemed to drive the support for Trump was darker and more complicated — the heart. And what makes this event particularly significant is not necessarily its political aspect (though that’s serious enough), but the fact that we find ourselves so poorly equipped to comprehend it. Thanks to the clumsy way in which we’ve been imagining ourselves, we are unprepared to digest it. Rarely has a failure of imagination been more humiliating. Dealing with the human abyss used to be the province of religion, but ever since God died we haven’t really been able to find a good replacement. (Not that there are any serious candidates.) Yet if we are to remain human ignoring the problem, looking elsewhere, is not an option. The humanities can reinvent themselves only to the extent that they will be able to chart, as adequately as humanly possible, the full depth of the human abyss. Unless we will find a way to account for the whole human subject, without self-flattery and self-delusion, we will move in circles, unable to overcome the blinding hyper-rationalism under which we currently slave.