President Trump’s Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, knows that investing in the Internal Revenue Service yields significant returns — he said as much during his confirmation hearings. And he’s right: Every dollar spent on the agency returns $4 in revenue for the federal government, and as much as $10 when invested in enforcement activities. Mr. Mnuchin’s boss doesn’t seem to care, but he should. And not just because the I.R.S. more than pays for itself. Cutting funds for the I.R.S., which has already endured years of budget cuts, would make it impossible for the president to pay for things he says he cares about, including infrastructure, Social Security and the military. Mr. Trump made his disregard for the I.R.S. obvious this month in his budget proposal, which calls for reducing the agency’s funding by 2 percent, or $239 million. Unfortunately, the seemingly endless cuts have compromised the agency’s ability to collect taxes, combat identity theft, prosecute tax criminals and deliver taxpayer services. The size of the audit staff has fallen by 30 percent, resulting in a decades-low audit rate of 0.7 percent for individual taxpayers. For large corporations, the number of returns audited in 2016 fell by nearly half compared to 2006, to 9.5 percent from 17 percent. Meanwhile, the enforcement unit lost 7,000 employees. The criminal investigations unit has also suffered staff reductions, resulting in fewer cases, prosecutions and convictions. Not surprisingly, identity theft and malicious threats to taxpayers’ private information have jumped by several orders of magnitude. The I.R.S. workload has also increased, with 15 million individual taxpayers added to the rolls since 2006, an 18 percent increase in returns filed by large corporations over the same period and significant new administrative responsibilities, including enforcement of the Affordable Care Act and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. While the White House budget proposal promises to worsen an already deplorable situation, the president’s Treasury secretary seeks to reverse the devastation. At his confirmation hearings in January, Mr. Mnuchin bemoaned the cuts to the I.R.S. budget over the last seven years. The agency “is under-resourced to perform its duties,” he said, adding that further cuts “will indeed hamper our ability to collect revenue.” He also acknowledged that money spent on the I.R.S. is a good investment: “To the extent that we add resources, we can collect more money.” Mr. Mnuchin said that additional investment should be devoted to manpower and modernization. With respect to manpower, Mr. Mnuchin has linked a depleted I.R.S. work force to falling collections. Beefing up the staff, he says, is “an important part of fixing the ‘tax gap,’ ” a shortfall that exceeds $450 billion a year, or 80 percent of last year’s budget deficit. Mr. Mnuchin has also expressed confidence in I.R.S. employees, saying that the agency “should be responsible for collecting most money due the Treasury” rather than private debt collectors, a form of outsourcing that Congress has approved for certain tax debts. In fact, his faith in the I.R.S. work force prompted one of his congressional interrogators to call it “refreshing” to hear someone “praise the employees at the Treasury Department.” As for modernization, Mr. Mnuchin has called it one of his “great priorities.” Mr. Mnuchin, the former chief information officer of Goldman Sachs, has pledged to “improve the accuracy and security of tax administration,” protect taxpayer information and keep the country’s “financial architecture safe from malicious attacks,” create an in-house team of experts to manage the agency’s systems, and optimize customer service through online accounts that allow taxpayers and the I.R.S. “to interact electronically and securely.” Mr. Mnuchin appreciates that the core mission of the agency is in grave jeopardy, and that the president’s tax and spending proposals are impossible without a revitalized I.R.S. The White House appears oblivious to these realities. Its budget proposal offsets $54 billion in new military spending with cuts to the I.R.S. and other discretionary sources. But the numbers don’t add up. Cutting the I.R.S. budget by $239 million puts Mr. Trump further away from filling his $54 billion bucket. Again, since $1 in I.R.S. appropriations yields at least $4 in additional revenue (and, again, as much as $10), cutting $239 million from the I.R.S. would reduce revenue by nearly $1 billion, and perhaps by as much as $2.39 billion. Alternatively, if the president reinvested in the I.R.S. with, say, $1 billion, he could generate at least $4 billion (and as much as $10 billion) toward bridges and roads, Medicare and, yes, aircraft carriers. Indeed, if he wants any of his spending initiatives to become a reality, Mr. Trump doesn’t need to slash the discretionary budget further, or look for creative new sources of revenue. He just needs to listen to his Treasury secretary.