COLLEGE STATION, Tex. — Last week, Rick Perry, the energy secretary of the United States, took time to criticize the student government election at his alma mater, Texas A&M. In an op-ed essay in The Houston Chronicle, Mr. Perry asserted that the process, which resulted in the election of the first openly gay student body president, was rigged in the name of “diversity” and “made a mockery of due process and transparency.” The essay by Mr. Perry, the former governor of Texas, drew attention, elevating a campus controversy into a subject of national debate. As someone who covered the race as the editor in chief of The Battalion, the university’s daily student newspaper, I found Mr. Perry’s assessment pretty astounding. Here’s what happened: When the vote for student body president was held in February, a junior named Robert McIntosh won. He was disqualified, however, first because of charges of  voter intimidation (which were later overturned by the student government court) and then because he had failed to disclose the cost of glow sticks used in a campaign video on a required expense report. His disqualification on seemingly trivial grounds may sound ridiculous to outsiders. But at Texas A&M, candidates have to follow very strict guidelines on campaign spending. They attend meetings at the beginning of their campaigns in which the rules are explained, and they are cautioned to be excruciatingly specific in their finance reports. All material for campaign events has to be accounted for, all receipts have to be turned in and labeled. Still, Mr. McIntosh’s glow sticks expense violation may have gone unnoticed were it not reported anonymously. Mr. McIntosh argued that the glow sticks were left over from a charity race, but the student court ultimately  disqualified him for his failure to report them. And thus, Bobby Brooks, the runner-up, became president. Mr. Perry’s very public suggestion that Mr. Brooks was handed the election because he is gay was quickly taken up by Mr. McIntosh. A day after Mr. Perry’s essay was published, Mr. McIntosh hired a lawyer to investigate whether he was disqualified “based on the fact that he is a heterosexual, white, Christian male.” His lawyer is deciding whether to file a suit on the basis of religious persecution. The idea that a white, Christian, straight man could be persecuted because of those factors — at one of America’s most conservative universities in one of America’s most conservative states — has caused some confusion. Many have found the argument outright laughable. But the thing is, Mr. Brooks’s sexual orientation was completely incidental to the student court’s ruling. He hadn’t hidden his sexuality, but it also wasn’t widely known. It was only on March 20, almost a full month after the election, that my newspaper published the first article to identify Mr. Brooks as gay. During the campaign, Mr. Brooks focused on academics, service by students and making counseling services more readily available. Also, call me naïve, but the idea that 20-year-old students would concoct what Mr. Perry called “a series of dirty campaign tactics” to take control of the student government is ludicrous. From everything we have heard or reported on at The Battalion, no part of this controversy stems from malicious conduct. No Russian ambassadors were contacted. No debate questions were given out ahead of time. In fact, while students are certainly politically active here, the majority didn’t vote in the campus election and don’t appear to really care about its outcome. On a campus of more than 60,000, just over 14,000 students voted. Many people are just here to go to school, and that’s fine, too. Why Mr. Perry chose to condemn our election remains mystifying. Mr. McIntosh, the disqualified candidate, is the son of a prominent Republican fund-raiser, but that’s not necessarily the reason for Mr. Perry’s interest. Yet the bad press did a real disservice to the school. A&M has very proud students and alumni. We are big on our honor code — “an Aggie does not lie, cheat or steal, or tolerate those who do.” For other universities, college rings are a cool memento that students wear on their graduation day and then store in a jewelry box. But many Aggies wear their rings until the day they’re buried in them. So Mr. Perry’s closing line in his op-ed essay, in which he wrote that the unfair treatment of Mr. McIntosh failed “every student at our beloved university” and tarnished the ring “that our alumni wear with pride,” was troubling to many. Still, there is a flip side to that proud history: Texas A&M has consistently been on the Princeton Review’s top 20 list of L.G.B.T.-unfriendly universities. Almost 150 years after the university’s founding, the news that Texas A&M would have an openly gay man as one of its most prominent student leaders felt like a real victory. Maybe now we were on our way to shedding that humiliating label. So, yes, we care about diversity at Texas A&M, but that doesn’t mean we care less about democracy. I don’t know how this will play out for A&M or whether Mr. McIntosh will pursue his case. In the meantime, students don’t have to rely on the national news to get their dose of political controversy. It’s right here on campus.