With all the controversy surrounding the painting of Emmett Till’s mutilated remains at the Whitney Biennial, one important voice is missing from the dialogue. What would Mamie Till-Mobley, Emmett’s mother, have to say about a white artist’s rendering of the iconic Jet magazine coffin photograph of her son, a 14-year-old African-American from Chicago who was lynched while visiting relatives in Mississippi in 1955? Based on what I learned in working with Mrs. Till-Mobley during the last six months of her life, as we raced the clock to ensure that her story — and Emmett’s — would live on, I believe she would have found purpose in it all. She would have challenged protesters and the Whitney to engage the public on the history of Emmett’s image, Dana Schutz’s painting and what it all means. For Mrs. Till-Mobley, it begins with a perspective on her son as a “sacrificial lamb,” whose death jump-started mass civic engagement. The Rev. Jesse Jackson called this tragedy the “big bang” of the civil rights movement. The death of Emmett Till was more than an isolated act of race hatred by white terrorists. It was enforcement of a social hierarchy in which place, privilege and power are maintained through intimidation, threat and violence. For Emmett’s mother, what happened to her son was not just an African-American story, it was also an American story, mapping a national journey to fulfilling the promise of freedom, justice and equality for all. She welcomed the megaphone effect of a wider audience reached by multiple storytellers, irrespective of race: Bob Dylan’s song “Ballad of Emmett Till”; Gwendolyn Brooks’s poem “The Last Quatrain of the Ballad of Emmett Till”; James Baldwin’s play “Blues for Mister Charlie”; Bebe Moore Campbell’s novel “Your Blues Ain’t Like Mine”; and Rod Serling’s numerous interpretations in his TV shows, including “The Twilight Zone.” Harper Lee might even have drawn inspiration from Emmett Till to create her Tom Robinson character in “To Kill a Mockingbird.” This multicultural outpouring of creativity was an embrace of Emmett Till as the first Black Lives Matter story. Still, Mrs. Till-Mobley recognized the dangers that exist in the framing and representation of black people by others who lack the cultural connection, the deeply felt pain of enforced marginalization. What is the reality of the white artist? In large measure it is a mediated reality shaped in part, research shows, by TV reports on crime and poverty disproportionately represented in “black face.” Irrespective of sympathetic intent, can white expression of the black experience fully capture the reality we live? Should it even try? Should it instead view the quest for social justice through the white American lived experience of privilege? Mrs. Till-Mobley would have welcomed an artist’s rendering of her son as preface to a counternarrative and a challenge to the rest of us to step up. She opened that coffin to force us to cast our eyes on a shared national responsibility for the death of her son by those who had contributed to the harsh system of American apartheid, as well as those who had done nothing to oppose it. In a way, Dana Schutz has attempted to answer the call. But she has appropriated the most sacred element of that narrative, making it her own. Did she cross a line? Was there an alternative point of entry for her contribution to this discourse? “She has the right to make that work,” suggests John Jennings, professor of media and culture at the University of California, Riverside. “But it supplants the mother’s very brave act of showing us the body.” Ms. Schutz has expressed good intentions in developing the painting, inspired by the saturation TV coverage of violence against young minority men and the anguish of a mother whose son is taken from her in the most horrific way. Here she is in conversation with Mrs. Till-Mobley, who wanted to develop the universal themes of family love, tragic loss and a journey to justice. Still, even while Ms. Schutz might find resonance in this commonality, she inadvertently reminds us of a traditional expression of white power through imagery. Mrs. Till-Mobley flipped the script on the spectacle of black death. Images of grisly public lynchings of African-Americans were used for years by white perpetrators as both trophy and warning. They represented white power over the black body and were sold as postcards to spread the word beyond the county. Even in death, the black body was a commodity. By permitting the coffin photo to be published, Mrs. Till-Mobley took control of the image and gave it new meaning. Many activists say they became involved in the civil rights movement because of that image. It is for these reasons that the image occupies such a special place in black collective consciousness. Should it, then, be revered and left alone? Is there anything more that can be added to its historical power through contemporary interpretation? Some say no. There has been the quiet action of a young black artist standing in front of the painting to block public view in something of a protest-as-performance. And there have been the more vocal protesters calling for the painting’s removal and destruction. Mrs. Till-Mobley just might have found value in protests (though not in censorship). She would have supported a full, robust engagement, perhaps organized by the Whitney to facilitate the debate the painting has provoked. As a public-school teacher and activist, she would have seen a teachable moment here. And so should we. In this way, we stand to create dialogue to replace the competing monologues we have now.