Last Wednesday in Washington, hundreds of people crowded into a town-hall meeting about the district’s many missing black and Latino kids. A photo of the event, circulated on Twitter the following morning, showed that nearly all the attendees were black. A little over two months ago, millions of women, men and gender-nonconforming people of all races came together in the same city in support of women’s rights, workers’ rights, racial equality, freedom of speech, immigration reform and more. The online magazine Clutch and others have noted the disjunction between the march and the meeting. Had it not been for countless black people on social media sharing information, the white mainstream media would have ignored the issue altogether. The meeting grew out of a claim that 14 black girls vanished in the nation’s capital in a single day, made in an image that spread on social media last week, that turned out to be untrue. But that inaccurate information has drawn new attention to a real problem. In a letter to the Justice Department and the F.B.I. last week, Representative Cedric Richmond of Louisiana, the chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, and Eleanor Holmes Norton, who represents the District of Columbia in Congress, noted that 10 children of color had disappeared from their homes in the nation’s capital in two weeks, a stunning number that initially got little notice. Though the recent social-media conversation on the issue may have been set off by faulty numbers, the truth is black girls and women are still some of the most vulnerable members of society. The journalist Gwen Ifill called the lack of attention to such disappearances “missing white woman syndrome.” Missing white, upper middle-class women and girls receive a disproportionate amount of press coverage compared to women and girls of color, poor people and men. In 2016, according to the National Crime Information Center, African-Americans, who make up only 13.3 percent of the United States population, represented 33.8 percent of the missing. Cmdr. Chanel Dickerson of the district’s police department has said that a large percentage of missing teenagers are leaving home voluntarily. But even leaving voluntarily can be evidence of a problem. As Commander Dickerson noted, “We need to get to the bottom of why these young people feel that there’s no other alternative but to leave home.” According to a 2016 report by the National Conference of State Legislatures, 46 percent of runaways and homeless youth report being physically abused, 38 percent report being emotionally abused and 17 percent report being forced into unwanted sexual activity with a relative or member of their household. Claims that black girls leave home voluntarily, if not coupled with an examination of all the reasons they might feel they need to leave, encourage the public to see black girls not as children in need of protection but adults responsible for their own predicament. As a result, few in authority do anything for them. The narrative around missing black girls is only part of the problem. Mainstream feminism has historically ignored the issues facing runaway and other missing black girls as well as most other issues regarding women and children of color. So far, nonblack women have been unwilling to get involved in something that doesn’t directly affect them. The same is true with regard to transgender women of color, who face a disproportionate risk of violence. Fifty-five percent of homicide victims in L.G.B.T. and H.I.V.-affected communities in 2014 were transgender women of color, according to the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs. Three black transgender women — Ciara McElveen, Chyna Gibson and Jaquarrius Holland — were killed in Louisiana in February. Given the severity of the problem, violence against black transgender women gets far less attention than it should from nonblack feminists. Because the stories of black girls are inadequately covered by the press, and because the girls themselves cannot always count on law enforcement to protect them, they become easy targets for predators. A solution starts with finding the girls who are missing now, but it doesn’t end there. We need to figure out what led up to their disappearances. If black girls are running away, it is insufficient to return them and not find out what forces, both personal and systemic, pushed them to flee their homes. It is exhausting to see black people, particularly black women, always having to do the work to change society. Queer black women began the Black Lives Matter movement and put their lives on the line to stand up against police brutality. Black women overwhelmingly voted for Hillary Clinton even when she was more of the patron saint of mainstream feminism than of issues regarding women of color. Today it is black women who are forcing others to see what’s happening with missing black girls. Now is the time to come through for us. We have always come through for you.