This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Tom Perriello, a populist former Congressman who represented rural Virginia and has long been admired by Barack Obama, talks about the “consolidation and monopolization of the economy.” But Perriello has also been praised by the National Rifle Association. Ralph Northam, meanwhile, is the lieutenant governor of Virginia, praised by both the state’s Democratic Party leaders and by abortion-rights groups. But Northam also voted for George W. Bush for president, twice. Either Northam or Perriello will soon be the Democratic nominee for governor in Virginia, one of only two states (with New Jersey) to hold a gubernatorial race this year. Many observers rightly see the contest as a sign of the Democratic Party’s direction. The two candidates agree on far more than they disagree, yet the differences between them are meaningful. Perriello — who effectively lost his Congressional seat by voting for Obamacare — is more populist on economics and more complicated (though still quite liberal) on social issues. Northam is more reliably liberal on social issues but more of an establishment candidate. A new poll shows them tied, with Perriello doing better among Bernie Sanders voters and Northam stronger among Hillary Clinton voters. Unlike Sanders, Perriello has also won some high-profile endorsements from Obama’s circle. My own early reading of the race — and I want to emphasize the “early” — is that both candidates are qualified but that Perriello’s approach seems more promising for the Democratic Party. It can more easily inspire frustrated voters. As always, I’d welcome thoughts from readers, on Facebook or Twitter or by email at Leonhardt@nytimes.com. For those who want to learn more about the race, I recommend Clare Malone’s new piece in FiveThirtyEight (which led me to write about the race), as well as an earlier article by Jonathan Martin of The Times.