LOS ANGELES — When President Trump retreats from a fight, he tends to do so with guns blazing. After a few days of hinting that he might be willing to work with congressional Democrats, this week he unloaded on the Republican Freedom Caucus with both barrels. Mr. Trump learned long ago to never admit a mistake, so  his Twitter attack on Thursday placing the blame for the failure of health care legislation on those conservative Republicans was designed to clear the path for him to reach across party lines. From the time he left his home turf in Queens to take on the Manhattan real estate moguls several decades ago, Mr. Trump has prided himself on being the ultimate outsider railing against the establishment. But in Washington, the members of the House Freedom Caucus are the true outsiders, and Mr. Trump got out-outsidered by them. He didn’t like it. During Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign, his populist message rallied an unlikely coalition of grass-roots conservatives, disaffected union members and other working-class voters against the political establishment. As long as he had convenient establishment foils — preferably named Bush or Clinton — that coalition was willing to overlook its differences to storm the gates of Washington with him. But when it came time to turn that broad rhetoric into the details of health care policy, Mr. Trump found himself outflanked by an even angrier group of insurgents — conservative House members who regarded any legislative solution whatsoever as unacceptable. The only way for Mr. Trump to have maneuvered to the outside of the members of the Freedom Caucus was to call their bluff, put his health care bill up for a vote and dare them to say no to a repeal of Obamacare. But Mr. Trump blinked, and now the 30-plus most conservative Republicans in the House know that they can stand up to him without fear of retribution. A more conventional politician might have expressed regret that his longtime allies could not be persuaded on this one issue, but agreed that they would continue to work together on other necessary policy challenges. But Mr. Trump is not most politicians, and so if he is now going to try to work with Democrats, he needed to burn the bridges with these Republicans to justify it. All of which is just fine, unless he ever gets to a point where he needs the support of the Freedom Caucus again. Mr. Trump does seem to understand that the voters want him to get things done, and the failure of his health care bill raises the stakes for him. But to pass legislation, he needs partners. And if he can’t get those partners from the right, he may have no choice but to look leftward. Mr. Trump’s challenge going forward, though, is that Republicans are not the only major political party in town with an energized and uncompromising base. Since the election, grass-roots Democrats have made it clear to their elected leaders that they are in no mood to try to find common ground with the president. When Senator Charles Schumer of New York theorized after the election that it might be possible to work with Mr. Trump on certain issues, he was quickly slapped down by his followers. Democratic senators who voted for Mr. Trump’s cabinet nominees were called out as traitors and heretics. Even if Mr. Trump is now of a mood to work across party lines, it doesn’t appear that there will be many Democrats willing to take him up on his offer. The lesson that the Democrats appear to have taken from the 2016 elections is that they need their own Tea Party. If one intransigent House caucus can create this many problems from the right, imagine what life in Washington will be like when its mirror image emerges from the left. Mr. Trump’s next task is to extend the nation’s debt limit to keep the government from shutting down, and there are certainly no Freedom Caucus votes for that. But in their current mood, Democrats are going to come to the negotiating table with an extensive set of demands to which Mr. Trump may have to concede. Mr. Trump could then conceivably follow with Democratic-friendly packages on working-class tax cuts, huge infrastructure spending and protectionist trade policy. But that’s a much different presidency than the one he started just 10 weeks ago. During his campaign, Mr. Trump promised to change Washington. Few would have predicted he’d do it from the center, but that now seems to be the path that’s still open to him.