Baseball is a game of gaps. No other sport uses the grand term “Opening Day” for its first round of contests, and no other athletic tilt, with the possible ancestral exception of cricket, is so dependent on hitting a ball where someone isn’t while throwing it where someone is. Baseball is a game of aim, and as the new season opens, with my beloved Blue Jays poised for another run in the hypercompetitive American League East, my thoughts turn to the very idea of aiming. The summer of 1986, I was working as an editorial writer at The Globe and Mail in Toronto. The Blue Jays were in contention. A midseason feature about them coughed up one of those nice conjunctions of wisdom that shape one’s sense of the game. Three coaches, asked for their most essential wisdom, provided variants on “Don’t think too much out there.” “Don’t think” seems like an imperative unlikely to generate success, but it is a longstanding mantra in sports, and maybe especially baseball, the game of expectant waiting. Yogi Berra offered his version as a kind of confession: “I can’t hit and think at the same time.” Which makes it sound like a shortcoming, on the order of failing to walk while chewing gum. But what if not-thinking is a gift, a liberation from troublesome effort? Think of Crash Davis, in “Bull Durham,” chiding the young fireballer Ebby Calvin LaLoosh, known as Nuke: “You just got lesson No. 1: Don’t think; it can only hurt the ball club.” I want to make the point about mental instability in a different way, with a passage from J. D. Salinger’s “Seymour: An Introduction.” The scene is in Manhattan, at the magic moment of dusk. Two boys are playing marbles while a third, Seymour, a brother of one of the players, is watching, then commenting on the play. “ ‘Could you try not aiming so much?’ he asked me, still standing there. ‘If you hit him when you aim, it’ll just be luck.’ He was speaking, communicating, and yet not breaking the spell. I then broke it. Quite deliberately. ‘How can it be luck if I aim?’ I said back to him, not loudly (despite the italics) but with rather more irritation in my voice than I was actually feeling. He didn’t say anything for a moment but simply stood balanced on the curb, looking at me, I knew imperfectly, with love. ‘Because it will be,’ he said. ‘You’ll be glad if you hit his marble — Ira’s marble — won’t you? Won’t you be glad? And if you’re glad when you hit somebody’s marble, then you sort of secretly didn’t expect too much to do it. So there’d have to be some luck in it, there’d have to be slightly quite a lot of accident in it.’ ” The perfection of a truly transcendent or transfinite performance, the scene illustrates, involves no luck or accident. One can almost hear the voice of Yoda indicting the failure of Luke Skywalker to raise his X-Wing fighter from the Dagobah swamp: “Try not. Do, or do not. There is no try.” There are other, less mystical forms of not-trying. Homer Simpson to Bart and Lisa: “Kids, you tried your best and you failed miserably. The lesson is, never try.” The difference is that Seymour’s not-aiming and Yoda’s not-trying are themselves forms of action. In other words, we go beyond our sense that it would be a good thing or a happy thing if something happened, some outcome was achieved, to a certainty that it always has happened, is happening and will happen.    Aiming is a more complicated act than we usually assume. I don’t mean the technical difficulties associated with deliberate aiming, as when a sniper factors a handful of complex variables — distance, elevation, wind speed, bullet trajectory, etc. — into the deadly logic of “one shot, one kill.” I mean the ability to forget oneself sufficiently so that the ball flows smoothly from the arm and hand and makes its true way to the waiting glove. Playing for the hapless Globe and Mail fast-pitch side in the mid-1980s, I came to realize that my throwing arm was erratic to the point of disaster. The hint of my debility had come in a summer pickup game the year before. Playing drawn in at shortstop, I charged a slow dribbler, scooped up the ball cleanly and, in one beautiful, smooth motion, sailed it about 12 feet above the first baseman’s head. My muscle memory had suffered some kind of internal breakdown, dissolving my once-reliable putout throw into a three-ring circus of wild tosses and extra bases. I was relegated to left field. The following year, I attempted to play short again. The catcher’s girlfriend, a charitable, sporty sort, offered to catch during warm-ups. I kept throwing the ball at her, but jerking the last part of the motion in a bizarre way, sending the little orb wide or high or both. She eventually got frustrated with me and shouted, “Dammit, can’t you just aim?” It struck me even in that moment that this was a signal instance of the Salinger-Seymour conundrum. I was trying to aim, but I couldn’t. Then I was trying too hard to correct the first failure. And then I was becoming self-conscious about my bad arm, and introducing fatal hesitations and hitches. I thought about a minor sports tragedy, the case of the Australian golfer Ian Baker-Finch. He won the British Open in 1991, flashing one of the sweetest swings on the tour. Then, in a slow crumbling of his game, in particular his on-course confidence, tinkering with his swing, he pulled it completely undone. He dropped in rankings and slipped from his tentative toehold on elite status. By the mid-1990s, he could not play competitively at all, even though he hit flawlessly in practice and casual rounds. “I lost my confidence,” Baker-Finch told a reporter from Golf Today. “I would try my hardest but when I came out to play, I managed to find a way to miss the cut time and time again. It became a habit.”  A couple of things are notable in this confession. The first is his mention of trying, indeed “trying his hardest,” to play better. This stands revealed as a comprehensive self-defeat. Trying harder only reinforces the series of psychological blocks that are making for the physical failure to execute. That is why some baseball coaches will caution their athletes to try easier — a paradoxical command on the road to true wisdom about the nature of trying. The second feature is Baker-Finch’s accurate diagnosis that his failure had become a habit. Aristotle long ago argued for the central role of habit in creating and executing human excellence. Habitual repetition of difficult actions is the only way to make them reliably available and, in that pinnacle of achievement, to make them look easy. Bad habits are likewise action-governing, and failure can become as automatic as success under the right — which is to say, the wrong — circumstances of reinforcement. The Baker-Finch tale reminds us of the force of habit, but also of the limits of trying. In many cases, especially in sports, skillful action is a matter of automaticity, not effort. This is strongly reminiscent once more of Lao Tzu’s doctrine of “wu wei,” the paradoxical action without action. Trying not to try is another way of articulating this key paradox, the step beyond, we might say, the transitional stage of trying easier. To know the tao, or the way, is not to acquire and master knowledge; it is, rather, to let go of the need for control and so arrive at a state of automatic, apparently effortless action that is indistinguishable from the spontaneous. “Stop thinking, and end your problems,” Lao Tzu counsels. “Act without expectation.” Also: “By letting go, it all gets done. The world is won by those who let it go! But when you try and try, the world is then beyond the winning.” When you throw the ball to first, do not think; just do. The ball is an egg, as Crash Davis said; don’t crush it. Throw it. Cognitive science has shown convincingly that actions undertaken without conscious effort are often far more successful than those subject to thought. Excellence, Aristotle’s notion of virtue, is indeed a matter of habituation. The Blue Jays, with a strong starting rotation and a batting lineup anchored by the declining superstar Jose Bautista, have their eyes bright on the prize of an American League pennant, and maybe the first World Series title since 1993. But I want to say, as their coaches most likely will: Whatever you do, don’t try for that! Take it series by series. Stay above .500. Hit, throw, catch, run — every day. That’s how you win. Everything else is failure.