MALIBU, Calif. — Opponents of Donald Trump were outraged when, flouting recent tradition, he refused to disclose his tax returns during the 2016 presidential campaign. They remain outraged that he continues to decline to do so as president. Now that political outrage is being channeled into legislation. Lawmakers in at least two dozen states have introduced bills that would compel presidential candidates to disclose their tax returns or be left off the ballot in 2020. The New Jersey Legislature recently passed such a bill, which sits on Gov. Chris Christie’s desk. Mr. Christie should veto the bill, and other states should abandon their efforts. Making the disclosure of tax returns mandatory is bad policy and, in this form, probably unconstitutional. It is rarely a good idea to try to resolve an ordinary political skirmish by making it a matter of statutory law. The political process is a flexible tool for addressing such issues case by case; a statute is a monolithic, one-size-fits-all solution. The tax disclosure issue is better served by the former. Consider the New Jersey bill. It is far-reaching in scope, extending to all presidential candidates. In 2016, that would have included Mr. Trump and Hillary Clinton. But it also would have included the Libertarian nominee, Gary Johnson, along with the Green Party nominee, Jill Stein, and every other minor party and independent presidential candidate. It is not necessary to force all these people to share their personal finances with the country. Furthermore, no candidate, not even Mrs. Clinton, has complied with the demands of the New Jersey bill. The tax returns that Mrs. Clinton disclosed in 2016 redacted her Social Security number, her home address and other personal information. But the New Jersey bill would compel candidates to turn over to the state everything they would turn over to the Internal Revenue Service, leaving it to a state official to decide what to redact. Candidates shouldn’t have to relinquish this much control over their privacy. But the bigger point here is not that the New Jersey bill (or that of any other state) is poorly written. The point is that statutes are rigid, indiscriminate things, often with unforeseen consequences, and the issue of tax disclosures by presidential candidates is a nuanced matter better sorted out through the political process. Consider that during their recent presidential bids, John Kerry and John McCain both rejected demands for the full disclosure of their wives’ tax returns, and that Mitt Romney and Mr. McCain decided to release only two years of returns (instead of at least five, as had been customary). These refusals may or may not have been political liabilities — it’s hard to know. Either way, the candidates retained control over their privacy, the electorate had a chance to punish them for it (or not), and no legislation was required. These considerations aside, the New Jersey bill and others like it are almost surely unconstitutional. The Supreme Court has repeatedly held that states can’t use the ballot as a political weapon. In 1964, for instance, Louisiana listed candidates’ race on the ballot. Louisiana maintained it was just providing truthful information to the voters of the state. The Supreme Court struck down the statute on the ground that the ballot was not a vehicle to direct voters to consider a candidate’s race. In the 1990s, Missouri asked congressional candidates to take a term limits pledge; if they refused to do so, the state would indicate on the ballot that the candidate “declined to pledge to support term limits.” The Supreme Court struck down that ballot provision, too. Both those cases stand for the proposition that states cannot use their ballots to achieve preferred political or policy outcomes — such as burdening those who prefer to keep some, or all, of their tax information private. The Supreme Court has, of course, permitted states to regulate access to the ballot for the purposes of separating out serious from frivolous candidates. (Common mechanisms include a modest filing fee or securing a sufficient number of voters’ signatures on a petition.) But the New Jersey bill isn’t intended to ensure that only serious candidates appear on the ballot. It’s intended to get Mr. Trump’s tax returns. It’s understandable that many state legislatures now want presidential candidates to disclose their tax returns: Mr. Trump’s refusal to disclose was, and continues to be, an issue of concern to many voters in New Jersey and across the country. But the ballot is not a form of leverage that may be used to pressure political candidates to meet legislative demands. This issue is best addressed, as it has long been, by the political process.