In October 2015, a New Jersey jury convicted Anna Stubblefield, a former professor of ethics at Rutgers University, on two counts of aggravated sexual assault on a 29-year-old man with severe cerebral palsy, known in the court records as D.J. The prosecution claimed that D.J. is sufficiently intellectually disabled to be incapable of consenting to sex and then alleged that Stubblefield had exploited and raped him. Many of those in the community of advocates for people with disabilities have a different view. Stubblefield has spent much of her career championing the rights of people with disabilities. D.J. was for most of his life regarded as incapable of communication. He continues to be regarded in this way by many. In response to a request from D.J.’s brother, Stubblefield began using a controversial method called facilitated communication that she believes enabled D.J. to express himself. Over a two-year period in which she believes she communicated with him often and deeply, she came to love him and to believe that he loved her and indicated his wish to have sex with her. Superior Court Judge Siobhan Teare did not allow the defense to present to the jury any evidence of D.J.’s ability to communicate, and decided to exclude all testimony from the defense, apart from that by Stubblefield herself, that in any way related to facilitated communication. In the absence of evidence supporting the defense’s contention, the jury convicted Stubblefield. Judge Teare sentenced her to 12 years in prison, with more than 10 of those years to be served without the possibility of parole. Stubblefield is now in prison. She has appealed her conviction, and the appeal will be argued on Tuesday. The court will then have 90 days to hand down its decision. We are professors of philosophy who have taught in New Jersey, one of us at Rutgers (though not at the same campus as Stubblefield), the other at Princeton. We have met Stubblefield only once, nearly a decade ago, at a conference on cognitive disability and moral philosophy. We were invited to this conference, which was organized by philosophers who are advocates for the cognitively disabled, as devil’s advocates whose challenges to common views about the moral status of profoundly cognitively impaired human beings and the permissibility of ending the lives of some newborn infants with severe disabilities were strongly criticized, not least by Stubblefield herself. In her philosophical work she has been and remains our determined adversary. We have no reason to be biased in her favor and our concern with this case is entirely disinterested. After studying the evidence advanced by Stubblefield’s attorney in support of her appeal, we are astonished by Judge Teare’s refusal to admit evidence that could have exonerated Stubblefield, while admitting contrary evidence from the prosecution. We also believe that, even if every factual claim made by the prosecution were true, a sentence of 12 years in prison would be utterly disproportionate to the nature of the crime. In facilitated communication, the facilitator supports the arm or hand of a disabled person while that person touches a keyboard to spell out words. The method is claimed by some to be particularly useful for people who, like D.J., are unable to speak and have great difficulty in controlling their limbs. But most studies have failed to show the method’s effectiveness, and some have shown that facilitators can, without intending to deceive anyone, come to believe that they are enabling a disabled person to communicate when in fact they are the ones who are writing the sentences. The studies cannot, however, prove that Stubblefield was misled in this way, and independent evidence suggests that D.J. is literate and able to communicate. Sheronda Jones, an undergraduate at Rutgers at the time, volunteered to assist D.J. by using facilitated communication so that he could write papers for an English class he was auditing at Rutgers. Before the trial, Jones had told a detective in the Essex County Prosecutor’s Office: “He pretty much read the books. I didn’t know any information about the book. I made sure never to read any of the information. I can’t tell you what he read. And he typed out the information.” Jones did not attend the class D.J. took. If she did not read the material on which his work was based, how could she have produced writings that respond to that material? The defense wanted to put Jones on the witness stand. Judge Teare refused, and the jury knew nothing of her interview with the detective. Rosemary Crossley, the defense’s expert on communicating with people with physical disabilities, assessed D.J.’s ability to communicate, spending 12 hours with him over three days, and found that he “wanted to communicate and was able to communicate, given appropriate strategies.” Her assessment was filmed by cameras in two positions. It was not based on facilitated communication but on methods that could have been viewed and judged by the jurors, such as requiring D.J. to touch, unaided, a “yes” or “no” button on a communication device and to answer multiple-choice questions, most of which he had to read for himself. Under these conditions, D.J. correctly answered 43 of 45 factual questions. The judge refused to allow Crossley to testify about her assessment, claiming that Crossley improperly assisted D.J. during the evaluation. The judge also did not allow the members of the jury to see the videos, which would have enabled them to judge for themselves whether Crossley had influenced the outcome. She did, however, permit the prosecution to display D.J. to the jury for a few moments in his mute and spastic condition. It is well established in the psychological literature that people tend to infer cognitive disability from severe physical disability, especially when the disabled individual is unable to speak. There is no reason to suppose that the members of the jury were immune to this tendency. Yet fewer than 50 percent of those with cerebral palsy have any degree of cognitive impairment. In an amicus brief, intended to be heard in conjunction with Stubblefield’s appeal, the American Civil Liberties Union, joined by various disability rights organizations, said that in exhibiting D.J. to the jury in this manner, the court had failed to protect his rights. The appellate court, however, has refused to consider the A.C.L.U.’s brief. Judge Teare’s exclusion of Jones’s and Crossley’s testimonies means that the jury’s verdict was given in ignorance of vital evidence. It also suggests the possibility that D.J. himself is now in a situation akin to “locked-in syndrome,” finding himself suddenly deprived of any means of communication after two years of being able to express his thoughts through Stubblefield and Jones. To determine whether this is true, his ability to communicate via facilitated communication should be established by independent testing. This should be done for his sake and for Stubblefield’s. Suppose, however, that all these doubts about Stubblefield’s conviction are mistaken. Even on that assumption, a sentence of 12 years in prison is excessive both in itself and in comparison with other recent punishments. It is, for example, in striking contrast to the penalty given to Brock Turner, the former Stanford student who is now free after serving only three months of a six-month sentence for raping an unconscious woman. The contrast does not indicate whether Turner’s sentence was too lenient, or Stubblefield’s too harsh. It does, however, suggest that we should think carefully about what considerations are relevant to sentencing for sex crimes. In determining how severe a sentence is appropriate for a sex crime, it seems obvious that the beliefs and intentions of the perpetrator and the harm done to the victim are among the most important considerations. Judge Teare described Stubblefield as “the perfect example of a predator preying on her prey” and gave her a sentence that would be fitting for a predatory rapist. Yet no one would or could ever have known that Stubblefield and D.J. had had sexual relations if she had not conveyed to his mother and brother what she believed to be his message to them, via facilitated communication that she conducted in their presence, that he and she were in love and had consummated their relationship. This is the action not of a sexual predator but of an honest and honorable woman in love. Even if she is mistaken in her beliefs about his intelligence and ability to communicate, it is undeniable that these beliefs are sincere and that she was neither reckless nor negligent in forming them. This ought to have been a mitigating, if not wholly exculpating, consideration in the sentencing. The severity of the judge’s sentence might be justifiable if Stubblefield’s having sex with D.J. not only was culpable but also both wronged him and harmed him. Yet both of the latter assumptions are questionable. A central issue in the trial was whether D.J. is profoundly cognitively impaired, as the prosecution contended and the court seemed to accept, or is competent cognitively but unable to communicate his thoughts without highly skilled assistance, as the defense contended. If we assume that he is profoundly cognitively impaired, we should concede that he cannot understand the normal significance of sexual relations between persons or the meaning and significance of sexual violation. These are, after all, difficult to articulate even for persons of normal cognitive capacity. In that case, he is incapable of giving or withholding informed consent to sexual relations; indeed, he may lack the concept of consent altogether. This does not exclude the possibility that he was wronged by Stubblefield, but it makes it less clear what the nature of the wrong might be. It seems reasonable to assume that the experience was pleasurable to him; for even if he is cognitively impaired, he was capable of struggling to resist, and, for reasons we will note shortly, it is implausible to suppose that Stubblefield forcibly subdued him. On the assumption that he is profoundly cognitively impaired, therefore, it seems that if Stubblefield wronged or harmed him, it must have been in a way that he is incapable of understanding and that affected his experience only pleasurably. If, by contrast, we assume that he has normal cognitive capacities, certain uncontested facts make it difficult to believe that he was forced to have sex against his will — for example, that he cooperated in the process of revealing to his family that he and Stubblefield had had sexual relations. On the assumption that he has normal cognitive abilities, he would surely have found a way to express his hostility to Stubblefield on that occasion or subsequently. Evidence of such hostility would have strengthened the prosecution’s case. The prosecution, however, offered no evidence that D.J. had ever shown hostility to Stubblefield. This is hard to reconcile with the assumption that D.J. has normal cognitive capacities and had been forcibly subjected to sexual abuse by Stubblefield. For someone to spend 12 years in prison for a sexual act that took place in the context of a long-term, caring relationship that was motivated by love — at least on Stubblefield’s part — and about which there is no evidence that it caused any harm is, in our view, outrageous. In October 2016, it was announced that D.J.’s family, which had filed a civil suit against Stubblefield, had been awarded $4 million by another New Jersey court — $2 million in compensatory damages and $2 million in punitive damages. The press report quotes the family’s attorney as saying that “my clients are victims of a horrible predator,” to which he added the gloating comment that “she’s got 12 years to think about it.” But just as there is little reason to suppose that Stubblefield harmed D.J., so it is difficult to see what harm she inflicted on his family members. If anything, she tried to help them by working to communicate with D.J. for two years without asking for or receiving any fee. She has now endured a harrowing trial, is separated from her teenage daughter and is facing 12 years in prison. Despite the complexities of the incident and the trial, we believe that Stubblefield herself is a victim of grievous and unjust harms.