Baseball fans love to hate what we see as the commercialization of the sport. The San Francisco Giants, for instance, came in for mockery when Candlestick Park was renamed 3Com Park, and when the team moved to Pacific Bell Park, which was renamed SBC Park, which was renamed AT&T Park. But if you need evidence of the symbiotic relationship between baseball and American capitalism, look no further than the Citgo sign outside Fenway Park. Boston’s famous sign said “Cities Service” when it was first built in 1940, and topped one of the oil company’s divisional office buildings. It was updated with the name Citgo and the “trimark” logo in 1965. By 1982, it had endeared itself to enough Bostonians that Citgo’s decision to take it down was met with public outcry. “We discovered that people thought of it as more than just a plain old sign,” the company’s vice president for marketing told The Times. The sign was threatened again last year when the building beneath it was sold to Related Beal, a company based in New York. But Boston’s mayor brokered a deal last month, and a Related Beal spokeswoman now says the sign will “remain in place for decades to come.” It’s not clear how much Citgo, now a subsidiary of Venezuela’s state-owned oil company, is paying for the privilege of continuing to delight Red Sox fans, some of whom enjoy yelling “C-it-go” when someone hits a home run. Before the current deal was reached, Related Beal wanted as much as $2.5 million and Citgo had offered $500,000. The company also became a sponsor of the Boston marathon. It’s not just Citgo — baseball offers plentiful illustrations of Americans’ nearly boundless ability to fall in love with names, logos and other gimmicks originally conceived to sell us stuff. Most ballpark names, and many ballpark traditions, have their origins in corporate America. Wrigley Field began life as Weeghman Park, after Charles Weeghman, owner of the Chicago Whales. After the Cubs arrived, it spent a few years as Cubs Park before getting its current name from William Wrigley, Jr., the team’s owner and founder of the famous gum company. Busch Stadium in St. Louis got its name in 1953 from the Cardinals owner and Anheuser-Busch president Gussie Busch, who also began the tradition of using Clydesdale horses as brand ambassadors. One of their first jobs for Busch was delivering beer to President Franklin Roosevelt to celebrate the repeal of Prohibition, and they remain a fixture at Cardinals games, even though Anheuser-Busch sold the team in 1996. Also still a fixture is the song “Here Comes the King,” a Budweiser ad jingle. There’s certainly something a little funny about fans providing free advertising, in song, for a company that doesn’t even own their team anymore, and about Bostonians clamoring to save a sign that now advertises a Venezuelan oil conglomerate. But neither the Budweiser song nor the Citgo sign hurt the fan experience; in fact, they arguably enhance it. More upsetting than private sponsorships is the extent to which the public is asked to sponsor the activities of sports teams. Clark County in Nevada is about to spend $750 million of taxpayer money on a new stadium for the Raiders in Las Vegas, along with $900 million in road upgrades to accommodate stadium traffic. Stadium deals rarely benefit cities, as Will Hobson at The Washington Post pointed out, and this one was described as “wildly crazy” by one economist. But it probably won’t be the last, or the craziest. Citi Field, by comparison, cost $850 million to build, with more than $600 million of that coming from public subsidies. Citigroup, meanwhile, pays the Mets $20 million a year for naming rights to the park. Couldn’t the Mets have racked up a few more naming sponsors (O.K., around 30) and let New York taxpayers keep their money? I’d rather pronounce a mouthful of a name than pay a team to build their stadium and then pay again every time I visit it. If the Citgo sign is any guide, fans would probably fall in love with CitiStarbucksMcDonald’sRussianOligarch Field within a few years, and then revolt when the team tried to rename it. The only thing missing from the Citgo deal, to my mind, is something to sweeten it for Sox fans. After all, their affection for the Citgo trimark seems to have been instrumental in getting the city to set up the deal that allowed the sign to stay. Citgo should really thank them by buying them tickets to at least one ballgame, if not more. It would be the American thing to do.