President Trump has made his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, a White House assistant with an exceptionally broad portfolio. Mr. Kushner has been charged with at least three major tasks, any one of which would be a full-time job: working on Middle East peace, preparing for a state visit by President Xi Jinping of China and overseeing a broad effort to reorganize the federal government utilizing business techniques. And on Monday, he accompanied Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on a visit to Iraq. Offhand, I am not aware of any White House staff member in recent history who has had such an important and diverse array of responsibilities. One would have to go back to Harry Hopkins, one of Franklin D. Roosevelt’s closest advisers, to find someone similar. But although Hopkins worked on both domestic and foreign policy, he didn’t work on them simultaneously, as Mr. Kushner appears to be doing. I have no idea if Mr. Kushner is up to any of these various jobs, let alone all of them. He appears to be well educated — an undergraduate degree from Harvard and joint law and business degrees from New York University. Although he has worked for his father’s real estate company and been the publisher of The New York Observer, he has no government experience other than an internship with the Manhattan district attorney, Robert Morgenthau. What stands out to me, having worked in the White House for Ronald Reagan, is that Mr. Kushner is not head of any White House office. There are many such offices, some with large numbers of employees, such as the Office of Management and Budget, the National Security Council and the Office of the United States Trade Representative. But only a couple of dozen of the most senior staff members have coveted West Wing Offices; the bulk of them work next door in the Old Executive Office Building, some on detail from the State Department or the military. And just a tiny number of people, including Mr. Kushner, have offices on the main floor of the West Wing, close  to the Oval Office. In other words, Mr. Kushner is clearly important given the location of his office. Yet, he does not appear to have any staff members of his own. As a practical matter, in a bureaucracy staff is power. If you are going to get anything done and have any kind of meaningful managerial control over your assignments, you need your own employees, and they need to be relatively close at hand, not across town at Foggy Bottom or over the river at the Pentagon. If President Trump wishes Mr. Kushner to have such big responsibilities, he needs to give him a commensurate staff. Unless he plans to enlarge the White House staff, he will have to take workers from someplace else. Even if he plans to get employees detailed from the departments and offices, he needs to find somewhere near by to house them for Mr. Kushner’s benefit. That means moving people around, which will ruffle feathers and create bureaucratic enemies for Mr. Kushner among those who feel he may be taking responsibility away from them and diminishing their power. All this can be done; past presidents have done so for various reasons. But I am not sure if President Trump or Mr. Kushner have yet grasped the necessity of staff for the fulfillment of his responsibilities. Without it, Mr. Kushner is just a dilettante meddling in matters he lacks the depth or the resources to grasp.