Every now and then, an astonishing number of brilliant and gifted people seem to come together out of nowhere to make the world a better, richer place. It can happen in politics, as it did before the American Revolution, when brilliant minds like Thomas Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton, Benjamin Franklin, John Adams and Thomas Paine happened to be in the same place at the same time and invented the constitutional democracy. The history of the arts and culture has many examples of these chance collaborations — the Renaissance, Impressionism, jazz, rock ’n’ roll. And then there is Fox News. According to a lawsuit filed on Monday in a New York court, Bill Shine, the co-president of Fox News, sees the creation of his network as a historic moment of cultural flowering. The suit, filed by Julie Roginsky, a liberal commentator for Fox News, says Shine offered this insight during a meeting on Nov. 29 at which Roginsky reported that she was harassed and punished for refusing to have sex with Roger Ailes, who was ousted as head of Fox over similar charges by other women. During the meeting, Roginsky’s filing says, “Shine bizarrely asked plaintiff if she had seen the Showtime documentary on the band the Eagles.” Roginsky said she had not, so Shine helpfully suggested she watch it “because the story of the Eagles was very similar to the story of Fox News, i.e. in the same way that such brilliant musicians as Glenn Frey, Linda Ronstadt and Jackson Browne could only have come together at ‘one place and one time in history,’ so it was with Bill O’Reilly, Sean Hannity, Suzanne Scott, Roger Ailes and Bill Shine coming together to form Fox News.” Shine was persistent in his desire to educate Roginsky musically. At another meeting, on Dec. 12, according to the lawsuit, Shine asked about the documentary again. “Shine once again recommended it, somehow expressing the belief that Ailes, a habitual sexual harasser, and his enablers, were a gift to the nation, like the Eagles,” the suit says. Roger Ailes has an undeniably brilliant mind. He was a powerful political consultant before forming Fox News, and he turned the network into the most successful cable franchise ever. But a gift to the nation like the Eagles? The band, like Browne, Ronstadt, Gram Parsons and other talented California artists of their time, gave us beautiful music and soaring lyrics. They enriched our lives with their art. They inspired us, commiserated with us at moments of heartache and heartbreak and made countless Americans happy. Fox, meanwhile, has given America an overdose of meanspirited right-wing commentary, propaganda and outright lies. Shine’s arrogance is stunning, especially if — as Roginsky claims — he was using the Eagles comparison as an argument to shield Fox from accountability for Ailes’s misbehavior. If Fox News was a gift to Americans, where can I return it?