Last year, the RAND Survey Research Group asked 3,037 Americans about their political preferences and found that the factor that best predicted support for Donald Trump wasn’t age, race, gender, income, educational attainment or attitudes toward Muslims or undocumented immigrants. It was whether respondents agreed with the statement “People like me don’t have any say about what the government does.” A feeling of disenfranchisement, or powerlessness, runs deep in the country — and it’s understandable. For most Americans, wages have been flat for 40 years, while incomes have soared for the superrich. Researchers have found, unsurprisingly, that the preferences of wealthy people have a much bigger influence on policy than those of poor or middle-income people. “I don’t think people are wrong to feel that the game has been rigged,” says Eric Liu, the author of “You’re More Powerful Than You Think: A Citizen’s Guide to Making Change Happen,” an engaging and extremely timely book published last week. “But we’re in a period where across the political spectrum — from the libertarian Tea Party right to the Occupy and Black Lives Matter left — people are pushing back and recognizing that the only remedy is to convert this feeling of ‘not having a say’ into ‘demanding a say.’ ” Liu, who founded Citizen University, a nonprofit citizen participation organization in Seattle, teaches citizens to do just that. He has also traveled the country, searching across the partisan divide for places where citizens are making democracy work better. In his new book, he has assembled stories of citizen action and distilled them into powerful insights and strategies. Among the questions Liu addresses are: What makes power legitimate? What are the laws of power? What sources of power are available to citizens? How can citizens better understand them to exercise power effectively? “This book is for underdogs and challengers,” he writes. “It’s for people who want to be change agents, not defenders of the status quo.” I spoke with Liu last week about some lessons from the book. Bornstein: What’s the main thing you took away from your research? Liu: As dysfunctional as our politics is right now and as disempowered as many people feel, there are so many Americans around the country who are relearning how to exercise their citizen muscles. There is a deep resilience to our body politic that we’re starting to see. B. Some examples? L. You can look at how in Kansas City, Communities Creating Opportunity is working to change the terms of predatory payday lending — a classic rigged game where it becomes incredibly expensive to be poor — by organizing power through congregations. Or Caring Across Generations, which is stitching together a narrative that connects an aging and predominantly white generation of baby boomers with a burgeoning generation of care givers who are predominantly women and people of color. In colleges, students are pressuring administrations to divest fossil fuel company stocks. Across the country, you have people from the libertarian limited-government right joining with people from the social justice left to reform the criminal justice system. B. Can you explain the three “core laws of power” you outline in the book? L. No. 1: Power compounds, as does powerlessness. The rich get richer, and people with clout get more clout. No. 2: Power justifies itself. In a hundred different ways — propaganda, conventional wisdom, just-so stories — people at the top of the hierarchy tell narratives about why it should be so. If the world stopped with laws No. 1 and 2, we would be stuck in this doom loop that would tip us toward monopoly and tyranny. What saves us is law No. 3: Power is infinite. I don’t mean we are all equally powerful. I mean simply and quite literally that we can generate power out of thin air. We do that by organizing. Those three laws yield three imperatives for action. If power compounds, you have to change the game; if power is always justifying itself, you have to change the story; and if power is infinite but people are stuck in zero-sum thinking, you have to change the equation. Politics in a democracy is a matter of majority rule. But in most periods of change, majority rule is shaped by minority will — an activated minority who decide that they’re not going to give their power away anymore but instead organize: That’s the story of the Tea Party, the $15 Now movement, the Dreamers and Trump voters. B. What experiences are most valuable for citizens who want to build their power? L. Be like Ben — as in Benjamin Franklin. Which is to say, if you want to build civic power, join or start a club. It doesn’t have to be overtly political. It can be a sports league, a book club, a neighborhood group. The building blocks of power are inviting and organizing other people to do anything. It means figuring out what it takes to draw people in, hold them, cast a wide net, and once you’ve gathered them, navigate tensions or competing views within the group. These capacities will come in handy when the political hour calls. B. What can you do if you want to help protect vulnerable people today? L. Build the muscle in the networks in between crisis flash points. The key is to be urgently building out the network of mutual aid — lawyers, communications people, church networks, neighborhood phone trees, your local A.C.L.U., journalists you want to alert immediately if there’s a state action against a disfavored group or other citizens committing hate crimes. Let me add this is not just about progressives organizing against Trump. There are libertarians and conservatives who are equally alarmed by some of the overreaching actions of the executive branch, and the permission that’s being given to local law enforcement and others to wield power heavy-handedly. B. Looking at college campuses, where are you seeing students using power effectively?  L. One example is a campaign called Know Your IX, which was started by students at Yale and Amherst who had been frustrated by the opacity and complexity of the accountability process in cases of sexual assault on campuses. So they created a project which was about knowing Title IX, the federal law that governs how campuses have to provide for equal treatment and justice. The campaign was about illuminating what had felt like — and in many cases was — a rigged or warped set of campus rules, then helping victims of sexual violence to navigate those rules and giving them strategies to activate other forms of power — peer power, alumni power, money power or the power of attention from the media — to force justice and systemic change. B. What advice would you give to the activists who led the women’s marches? L. I’d love them to offer their advice to everyone else! They should be codifying all the steps they took, even if they sound simple. From “make a spreadsheet” to “think about people who are in nodes of networks” to “create a good visual meme to spread on social media.” Then say with everybody who came to those marches,“O.K., that was an awesome start. Now here are four or five pathways for you to continue.” One can be about policy-making 101 on the issue you care about. Two can be running for office or supporting someone. Three, start organizing money. Small money organized at scale can change the game. Four, learn how to activate allies for various causes. Show the people who showed up at those marches how to convert protest into institutional power. B. But in our age of distraction, how do we get citizens to transcend boredom? L. The greatest remedy for boredom is purpose. If you feel a sense of purpose and a fulfilled sense of community in the work you’re doing to make change happen, you won’t be bored. It won’t feel like torture to be stuffing envelopes, or working a phone bank, or knocking on doors. That will feel like part of what you get to do when you’re part of a community of purpose. And that allows you to transcend internet time and the need for distraction. B. What could schools be doing to better educate young people about citizenship? L. My two-word answer is: Teach power. And help students learn power by practicing it. What schools and universities could be doing far more is engaging in what is now being called “action civics,” the way groups like the Mikva Challenge or Generation Citizen teach civics by doing: actively preparing students to name changes they would like to see in their neighborhoods, and then having them try to make those changes happen through politics. B. What can parents do? From an early age, we can help kids ask, “What if?” and “Why is it this way?” and “Who decides?” You can be walking with your kids to the park, and you can say, “What if the park was bigger and had a newer jungle gym?” Or “Who decided where the park should be?” Or “Why aren’t there lights in it so people can hang out at night?” Asking kids to ask questions about the environment they are moving through is a way of teaching citizen power. “How would you redesign the neighborhood?” You encourage that kind of curiosity so that kids learn not to accept givens as given. As they grow older they’ll get more sophisticated about the givens they want to challenge. All civic power boils down to the question of who decides. And I think that question is one that we often overlook because we assume that we’re not part of the answer. But you can insert yourself into the answer. You can shine a relentless bright light onto the rules — and start changing them.