I push the walker in front of me, its front wheels larger than the wheels in back. My right leg drags a little. My right foot drops. When I don’t have the rollator in front of me — when I try to walk unaided — I have to bring my right hand up to my waist to create my own version of balance. Elbow clamped to my side. Stiffness where most other people have swing. I’m also weak. Spastic. I wear braces for balance and support. How many times has some bio-technician cradled my feet in his or her hands, stroking the wrapping in place from which a new brace will be cast? I cannot count but I recall each time as if it were the same as the time before, the same as the time yet to come. My hands quake with tremors, as do my father’s hands and as did his father’s hands before him. But I’m the lucky one. I’m the one who gets the disease, a rare form of motor neuron disease, in its full expression. My father and grandfather didn’t even know they had a disease — transmitted in an autosomal dominant pattern, the geneticist said. They stopped being able to walk in their 70s and 80s and decided that this was caused by other things, perhaps by the nature of being old men, or a failure of the will to move, or the inconstant beating of their own blood. It begins for me in my 30s. When I’m out running, my right foot goes out from under me, then comes back into position. It’s nothing, I think. But over time, it happens more and more frequently. And other things come too, in silent waves: I stiffen like a tree trunk. I cannot easily rise from a chair. I cannot climb a flight of stairs. I cannot live my life without being overcome with profound fatigue, an exhaustion so deep and unmeasurable that I weep when I don’t have the strength to make dinner. I tell myself that I’m working too hard. Trying to do too much. That all single parents are beset by weariness without end. I stop running and walk instead. When I can no longer walk any distance, I go to the gym. When I can no longer tolerate the gym, I go to the pool. But each new environment is a landscape of loss. What I could do and no longer can. What I can’t do an irrefutable presence, as if lack has a shape and a weight. A colleague at work points out my constant limp. I shrug. By this time, I have seen neurologists at Duke and Johns Hopkins. They’re baffled. Something is wrong — on exam, my big toes point up, my reflexes jump, my muscles catch, my index finger shivers in a sign of a spinal lesion — but they can’t say what. Only when I finally see a neuromuscular disease specialist at the big teaching hospital in Chapel Hill, N.C., do I find the doctor who knows what’s gone wrong. In time, he delivers the news that I cannot be cured. I can only grow worse, my disability increasing in insidious increments that he will track by seeing me every three months. Time passes. We watch, this doctor and I, as my disease moves through me. It’s languid, quiet, but it moves. I grow weaker. I atrophy in discrete regions — my right foot and then my left and then my right hand — but I don’t waste. I grow fat from immobility and then I grow thin again. I want to live as who I was, not as what this disease makes of me. This idea is a chimera but it helps me to think that I am fighting. I am a fighter. I always have been, even when I cannot win. At other times in my life, I might have viewed this as a pathological neurosis akin to tilting at windmills. Now I think of it as a saving grace. These tales I tell myself. The way I plan to escape fate. All to keep myself going. Eventually, however, I am disabled. Disabled. Like this word is the sum total of my existence. That dragging leg. That dropping foot. That unbearable fatigue. A woman with a rollator moving slowly through the world. These things signal my difference whenever I move. They are obvious. Unrestrained. Soon, I leave my university career. I slowly begin to disappear from view. The things I have earned seem ever further away. This is the nature of this difference, I realize. The way disability stands in for everything you were or ever would have been. Even when you say it will not. Even when you refuse its existence. Disability is contemptuous of your refusal. It scoffs at your desperate concern. It pushes forward and it drags you after it. I develop a serious side effect. A co-morbidity, my doctors call it. I nearly die. It doesn’t matter that I said I would fight to stay upright. It doesn’t matter that I have resisted the wheelchair. My body has other plans and it doesn’t consult me. It is my own and yet it is blind to my dreams. My desires. Weirdly, I begin to understand that I am but a part of my body. My body is not a part of me. Thus subordinated, I live. And I keep on living. This story should end with an epiphany, a moment when I discover that I can still soar. How we love this narrative in America! The ultimate act of bootstrapping: refusing to give in to a body you cannot control and that medicine is helpless to cure. And I nearly have such a moment. Leaning against my car in a gas station by the side of a highway, pumping gas, I see a man standing next to a pickup truck, an unremarkable sight save that he has a huge hawk on his arm. The hawk is unblinded, its hood draped over its neck like a collar, but it is lashed to the glove on the man’s arm like a dog to a post. Unaccountably, it sees me and tilts its head and then tilts its head again. What are you looking at? I think. As I so often think. But I wave to the man and call, “Beautiful bird.” He nods and says they’ve been out hunting. It’s a dreary morning, mist hanging in veils over the fields, a purplish tinge to the distant trees. I cannot imagine hunting in the rain with a bird aloft but then I do. The rivulets of water standing in the farm ditches. The fresh scent of the pines. The breeze lifting the sky and then lifting the sky again, each cloud turning. For just a moment, my heart lifts and, as if to answer me, the hawk rises and spreads its wings and then flaps back into place. Gives itself a shake as it strains against its bindings and then looks at me again, the expressionless light of its eyes seeming to say, What’re you going to do? Nothing, I say. I can do nothing. I finish pumping my gas, and holding onto the side of my car for balance, I return the nozzle to its cradle, turn and climb back into the driver’s seat and point my car south, toward home. A few minutes later, the man and the hawk are gone and nothing is left but the road ahead, occult, unknown, and yet so familiar by now that I feel every turn in my failing neurons. In my ever hopeful bones.