Attorney General Jeff Sessions recently ordered a review of federal agreements with a number of local law enforcement agencies aimed at reforming troubled departments. As a first step, the Justice Department on Monday asked a judge to delay a consent decree that would overhaul Baltimore’s police force. On its face, Mr. Sessions’s order simply asks whether the consent decrees promote public safety, support officers, respect local control and are warranted. But underlying the order is the Trump administration’s belief that efforts to align police practices with the Constitution have compromised public safety and thrown police officers under the bus. This couldn’t be farther from the truth. Countless police chiefs and mayors are vocal about wanting federal reform or have emerged from the consent decree process remarking that their departments were the better for it. Mr. Sessions claims to want to revert to local control, but he should listen to local officials like Baltimore’s police commissioner, Kevin Davis, who called the Justice Department’s request to delay the reform agreement “a punch in the gut” and noted that “a consent decree will make the Baltimore police department better both with the crime fight and our community relationships.” No matter what review Mr. Sessions conducts, he cannot unilaterally undo these reform agreements. That’s because the district courts that oversee them will ultimately decide their fate. In addition, the reforms are negotiated with local elected officials and law enforcement leaders, with extensive input from grass-roots organizations, police unions, officers and civilians. Mr. Sessions can try to undermine them, but many of the reforms are durable. That’s good, because communities around the country need this work to continue. In cities like Ferguson, Mo., Chicago and Baltimore, federal reform addresses unconstitutional stops, searches and arrests, and excessive and retaliatory force. These problems erode trust between police departments and the communities they serve, trust that is essential to effective policing as well as officer and public safety. Rebuilding these ties is also necessary for preventing and solving crime. Few in law enforcement would disagree with this. When we worked on police reform at the Justice Department, we heard over and over again from officers and community members during our investigations in Baltimore and Chicago that relationships had broken down so badly, witnesses sometimes refused to share vital information and victims declined police assistance. Mr. Sessions’s suggestion that the Justice Department’s policing agreements interfere with proactive policing is likewise baseless. There is no question that lawful stops, arrests and, at times, the use of force are all necessary tools for ensuring public safety. But Baltimore’s misguided zero-tolerance policing strategy, for example, severely damaged police-community relations, especially in black neighborhoods. Even the Baltimore Fraternal Order of Police acknowledged that officers felt “pressure to achieve numbers for perception’s sake.” We found that only 3.7 percent of the more than 300,000 stops of pedestrians in Baltimore over four and a half years resulted in a citation or an arrest. Many of those stop-and-frisks lacked any legal justification. Even when charges were brought, supervisors and prosecutors rejected over 11,000 of them because they lacked probable cause or otherwise did not merit being pursued. That is not effective proactive policing. Instead, the Baltimore Fraternal Order of Police has called for community policing, in which officers are on patrol in neighborhoods they know and are invested in, and are trained in tactics that build trust and fight crime — precisely the model the Justice Department promotes in those consent decrees under Mr. Sessions’s scrutiny. Mr. Sessions’s order wrongly suggests that the Justice Department reform agreements conflict with his goal of supporting officers. The reform agreements address the very officer-support issues his review identifies, like the need to improve access to technology and equipment, increase training, promote officer wellness and improve recruitment practices. In fact, one of the first steps in every investigation by the Justice Department has been to reach out to individual police officers at all levels of rank and authority, as well as police labor organizations. Many of the Justice Department’s findings are based on issues that officers and unions themselves identify. In Baltimore, for example, we interviewed command staff and rank-and-file officers. We engaged with police unions and reviewed the information they provided us. Indeed, some of our findings echoed a 2012 report issued by the Baltimore fraternal order that identified the need for sustainable reform. Mr. Sessions also suggests that the reform agreements are prompted solely by the misconduct of a few “individual bad actors.” But before a consent decree can happen, a court must find a “pattern or practice” of unconstitutional policing. That standard goes far beyond the isolated acts of a few bad apples. The department’s findings in Baltimore and Chicago were based on a review of hundreds of interviews and tens of thousands of pages of documents that detailed departmental policies. In finding a pattern of excessive force in Chicago, for example, we determined that police shot or tasered people who presented no immediate threat at extraordinarily high rates. In addition, Chicago’s police department failed to provide sufficient police guidance and training, to collect and analyze data on officers’ activities, to hold officers accountable for misconduct and to offer the resources and equipment necessary to support constitutional policing. These problems were clearly systemic, as Chicago’s communities of color have long known. Our reports gave voice to African-American, Latino, L.G.B.T. and other marginalized communities who bear the brunt of such unlawful policing and have long advocated reforms. It would be an abdication of the Justice Department’s congressionally mandated responsibilities to ignore these problems. If Mr. Sessions’s review is conducted in good faith, it will vindicate the Justice Department’s existing police work and demonstrate the continuing value of consent decrees. It will show that the department’s civil rights division uses its authority wisely, in only a small fraction of the nation’s more than 16,000 law enforcement agencies. It engages fairly with law enforcement, as well as individuals, community leaders and elected representatives. It makes findings where the law and the facts demand it. It negotiates agreements in good faith with local leaders, adhering to principles of local control and resource limitations without compromising its statutory responsibility to enforce federal civil rights laws. It closes cases when needed. Justice Department career staff members understand the difficulties faced by police officers in Baltimore and across the country. They know that every day, officers risk their lives to uphold the law and keep communities safe. They are keenly aware of the challenges of policing in cities grappling with complex social and economic challenges rooted in poverty, racial segregation and inadequate educational, employment and housing opportunities. The factors the attorney general wants the Justice Department to consider in his review have already been accounted for. Mr. Sessions should let the people in his department working on police reform keep doing their jobs.