The Trump administration’s decision to remove its chief strategist, Stephen Bannon, from the National Security Council’s principals committee, along with the deputy national security adviser K.T. McFarland’s likely exile to Singapore, as the United States ambassador, seems to indicate that Lt. Gen. H.R. McMaster, the national security adviser, is finally getting a little hard-earned bureaucratic traction. Not so fast: Other signals suggest that President Trump’s national security team remains as weak and dysfunctional as ever. And while some people are crediting General McMaster with a big win, the reality is much different. Reportedly from the moment he hired General McMaster, President Trump gave him broad staffing freedom. Yet Ms. McFarland, whom General McMaster wanted out, remained in place for well over a month. More egregiously, in mid-March, General McMaster tried to fire Ezra Cohen-Watnick, the senior director for intelligence programs at the National Security Council. Mr. Cohen-Watnick, a holdover from Michael Flynn’s aborted stint as national security adviser, complained to Mr. Bannon and Jared Kushner, who prevailed on Mr. Trump to have him reinstated. The idea that the 30-year-old Mr. Cohen-Watnick should be senior director for intelligence programs — a position held by senior career C.I.A. officers in the Obama administration and others — is dubious. Furthermore, General McMaster’s decision to get rid of Mr. Cohen-Watnick was well within his pay grade. And Mr. Trump’s countermanding an understandable and routine staffing decision not only reneged on his deal with General McMaster, it also segued to an episode of clear White House obstructionism. A few days after his reinstatement, Mr. Cohen-Watnick was one of three White House staffers who facilitated a briefing to House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes on the “incidental surveillance” of Trump campaign staff members, which Mr. Nunes used to distract news media and public attention from the committee’s investigation of possible collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government to influence the outcome of the presidential election. A little unpacking revealed how artlessly pretextual this distraction was: Mr. Nunes professed the need to learn new information about surveillance to warn the president, yet that very information was in the possession of the White House and accessible to Mr. Trump without Mr. Nunes’s intervention. Thus, Mr. Cohen-Watnick helped run interference for the administration against Congress in the Russia investigation. In a properly running National Security Council, this wouldn’t have happened. One defensible inference is that Mr. Trump wanted to keep a pliable ally as the White House’s principal liaison with the intelligence community. To arrange Mr. Trump’s reversal of General McMaster’s dismissal of Mr. Cohen-Watnick, Mr. Bannon required no formal position on the National Security Council. Indeed, Mr. Cohen-Watnick’s other inside patron — Mr. Kushner — had no such position. Even with Mr. Bannon off the principals committee, he will be able to manipulate the National Security Council through Mr. Trump, who seems to regard it as a closely held corporation for channeling executive action originating with his inner circle. At this point, that circle does not appear to include General McMaster. While a partisan could perhaps write-off the Cohen-Watnick affair as an aberration, the National Security Council’s substantive performance is harder to elide. Interagency coordination, the council’s primary function, has been abysmal. In his first official visit to Beijing, Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson blithely channeled buzz phrases like “win-win solutions” and “mutual respect” in describing United States-China relations. The phraseology seemed to signal United States capitulation to China’s sphere-of-influence geopolitical stance, marking the most recent in a series of confusing tonal and substantive shifts on Washington’s part. Matt Pottinger, the senior director for Asia at the National Security Council, had warned in a memo against using such language. The fact that no one seems to have paid him any heed suggests how little the council matters in the Trump White House. Then, this week, Mr. Trump extolled the brutal authoritarian rule of President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt when he visited the White House, complimenting him on a “fantastic job.” This love-fest reinforced Cairo’s hope that the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood, a potent political force in Egypt, would be designated a terrorist group by the United States. While the ideological Mr. Flynn favored such action, the more pragmatic General McMaster is wary of demonizing Islamists and probably would not encourage a terrorist designation. His apparent lack of input demonstrates how far he sits from the inner circle. Last but not least, on Tuesday, Mr. Trump issued only bland disapproval of the chemical weapons attack by Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime that reportedly killed more than 100 people. He offered no clear policy or response, while Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, implied it would be “silly” to advocate regime change due to the absence of practical alternatives. The next day, Nikki Haley, the United States ambassador to the United Nations, in an emergency session of the United Nations Security Council, struck a very different chord by condemning the regime and saying that the United States could take unilateral action should the Security Council fail to respond effectively. (Mr. Trump then dialed up his own language, saying his attitude toward Syria had “changed very much.”) In each case, the stated position of one national security player did not mesh with that of another. Among the National Security Council’s key tasks is to help the president arrive at a consensus on a given foreign policy issue by soliciting the views of different agencies and orchestrating compromises in formulating a clear and integrated approach. On that basis, the council customarily provides the president with background briefings and talking points, or vets those prepared by other members of his administration. The importance of this harmonizing process rests in sending clear signals to adversaries as well as allies and partners about United States attitudes and intentions. National Security Council proceedings are necessarily secret and unavoidably opaque to the public. Perhaps these conventional council tasks were fulfilled and simply ignored by Mr. Trump. And perhaps a lack of policy coordination is just the way it is in the Trump administration. But if that is the case, the situation calls into question the National Security Council’s very utility. Certainly the institution is better off, and freer to do its work, without Mr. Bannon insinuating his eccentric, dangerous and often counterfactual ideas into its operations. But for the institution to have real value, regardless of who the players are, Mr. Trump himself needs to respect it more than he apparently does.