This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. The founding fathers believed in majority rule, with only a few exceptions. In his 1801 guide to Senate practices, Thomas Jefferson wrote, “The voice of the majority decides.” The exceptions, as spelled out in the Constitution, included removing someone from office, overriding a veto, ratifying a treaty and amending the Constitution itself. Passing a regular law wasn’t one of the exceptions. Nor was confirming a Supreme Court justice. Over time, however, the Senate changed its rules to give the minority party the power to block action so long as it had 34 votes. (The Senate changed the threshold to the current 41 votes in 1974.) So when you hear people — on both the left and right — decry the likely weakening of the filibuster this week, keep in mind that it has not been a permanent part of American democracy. For much of our history, majority rule was the norm, and supermajority rule was a rare exception. “The switch to supermajority rule,” Steven Waldman writes in an Op-Ed today, “happened without a constitutional amendment, without a national debate, without its even becoming a major issue in a presidential campaign.” It happened through a series of changes in Senate rules and norms, as Waldman explains. For now, the filibuster seems likely to remain in place for most issues, the newest exception apparently being confirmation of a Supreme Court nominee. And if it did disappear immediately, Republicans would benefit greatly, since they control the White House, the House and 52 Senate seats. Without the filibuster, President Trump could sign a lot of far-reaching legislation on the climate, the budget, Wall Street regulation and many other subjects. Over the long term, though, the filibuster has been a better friend to Republicans than Democrats, as Waldman notes. Republicans have used it much more, and the filibuster has often frustrated progressive goals, including immigration reform, gun control, the minimum wage, civil rights, campaign finance rules and the “public option” for health insurance. Democrats would be crazy to get rid of the filibuster anytime soon, especially after Republicans used it so effectively against the Obama administration. For their part, Republicans — who have the power to get rid of it whenever they want — will no doubt be tempted to do so again in the coming months. But Republicans also have deep reasons to keep the filibuster intact, as Waldman explains. For more history of the filibuster, you can read Ezra Klein’s 2013 piece in The New Yorker or various good work by Sarah Binder, including a recent Times Op-Ed. In The Times, Jennifer Steinhauer has a smart look at the current state of the filibuster. For a piece making a different case from the one I made yesterday — that Democrats are right to filibuster Neil Gorsuch’s nomination — try Charlie Savage in The Times or Ruth Marcus in The Washington Post. A programming note: I’ll be away next week, and a rotating cast of Opinion editors will be writing the newsletter. I think you’ll enjoy hearing from them. 