Stephen K. Bannon, the architect of Donald Trump’s campaign and presidency, is a man with a lot of ideas. He believes that Western civilization is locked in an existential battle with the barbarians at the gates, that nationalists must wrest control from the aloof and corrupt globalist elite, and that America is a once great nation shackled by welfare for both the poor and the wealthy. It was a version of this narrative, market-tested on Breitbart News, that carried Mr. Trump to the presidency. One way to understand Trumpism is as applied Bannonism. The first few months of President Trump’s term have been an attempt to put all of that theory into practice, and by any reasonable standard, that attempt has failed. As it turns out, there’s a difference between spinning yarns and the careful needlework of piecing together policy and political coalitions. The travel ban was Mr. Bannon’s first high-profile defeat. The hastily written and sloppily executed executive order, intended to halt immigration and travel from seven Middle Eastern countries, was immediately met by widespread protests. Mr. Bannon attempted to spin this as a feature, not a bug, an attempt to provoke opposition from the right set of enemies, but even nominal allies recoiled from the ban’s capriciousness. Worse, the executive order was quickly halted by the courts, and even a revised version has not yet been able to pass muster with the judiciary. Mr. Bannon’s most recent defeat is his removal from the National Security Council. As with the travel ban, he and his allies attempted to cast this as part of the plan. In his telling, he had taken a place on the council only to undo the work of Susan Rice, President Obama’s national security adviser; his allies said he was there to monitor Michael Flynn, the first national security adviser under President Trump. With those tasks accomplished, his work on the council was done. These explanations were quickly countered by leaks that portrayed Mr. Bannon as the loser of an internal power struggle, a depiction implicitly confirmed by leaks from his own camp. The media has cultivated the reputation of Steve Bannon as chessmaster and puppeteer, both Rasputin and Svengali, a consigliere with a well-worn library card. “Saturday Night Live” even imagined him as the Grim Reaper. Mr. Bannon has cheerfully played along with this portrayal, likening himself to avatars of dark power like Darth Vader and Dick Cheney. But there was never much reason to believe Mr. Bannon has the political genius necessary to actually bring his ideas to life. It’s true that much of the ideological underpinning of Mr. Trump’s agenda comes from Mr. Bannon, and it’s also true that he has outsize influence with the president. But as accomplishments go, fomenting xenophobia and manipulating a famously mercurial political neophyte are thin evidence of genius. The rejection of the travel ban by the courts and the political left could turn into political capital for both Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon if a terrorist attack happens on American soil. And while in a normal administration, being removed from a formal post would signal a loss of favor and influence, in Mr. Trump’s world, power and position are uncoupled. Mr. Bannon’s setbacks could all be temporary, but that doesn’t mean that they aren’t setbacks. In each of these cases, Mr. Bannon’s preferred outcome was thwarted by rather ordinary political forces, the same ones he promised to circumvent and transcend. In a way, to believe in Mr. Bannon’s genius is to adopt the president’s belief in a sort of vulgar technocracy — the belief that the “best people” can solve any problem put in front of them, whether they have expertise in that field or not. A newspaper publisher can broker peace in the Middle East and revolutionize the government. A neurosurgeon can run the Department of Housing and Urban Development. A life as a real estate mogul and celebrity businessman is adequate preparation for the presidency. But the ability to grab power does not grant the wisdom to wield it, and ungrounded grandiosity is just pretension.