Pepsi on Wednesday pulled a disastrous advertisement after it was met with widespread ridicule. Titled “Jump In,” the two-and-a-half minute spot was full of clumsy, glib references to police brutality and Black Lives Matter protests. Nearly every tone-deaf frame has become a mocking meme. And the commercial (Pepsi calls it a “short film”) drew the most intense disgust from the very people whose experiences it tried to reflect. But “Jump In” — which bizarrely ends with the model Kendall Jenner handing a police officer a Pepsi, inspiring smiles all around in a happy end to a demonstration that looked more like a street party the whole time — is not just a one-off misfire or an offensive aberration. Rather, it highlights deep structural problems and contradictions in the advertising industry, problems that run much deeper than this particular failure. I’m a white man who has worked in advertising for seven years, and while I’d like to say I’ve never been complicit in similar mistakes, I know I probably have. But my experience gives me some insight. In advertising, any attempts to tackle “big issues” (racism, sexism, domestic violence, climate change) must remain linked to a corporation’s need to push product. Branded content like “Jump In” seeks to provoke while still speaking to the broadest possible audience. Its goal is the sort of edginess that doesn’t alienate anyone. With that in mind — and without any specific knowledge about how “Jump In” came to be — I can imagine that it was born from some combination of good intentions, corporate hedging and a huge failure to grasp the limitations of advertising on the part of the people working for Pepsi’s in-house content agency. But the failings that made “Jump In” a disaster on nearly every level are hardly one-dimensional or confined to this brand or this particular campaign. In the wake of Donald Trump’s election, there has been a rash of advertisements seeking to remind consumers of what really makes America great, or to push saccharine messages about the idea that by working together, we can fight evil and make the world a better place. “Jump In” stands out even in this group with its attempt to channel, if not appropriate, the highly specific contemporary notion of “wokeness” — which, loosely defined, refers to understanding of and commitment to addressing injustice. But the ad ends up telling a preschool-level story about activism that is so safe as to be ludicrous: young people of different colors holding signs with vaguely positive messages. Oversimplifying resistance and commodifying cross-racial coalitions inherently makes light of real concerns — and viewers noticed. Critics have been flabbergasted by the spot, asking, “What were they thinking?” I suspect that the process involved some well-meaning younger creatives who naïvely wanted to make an important statement. But there’s always a tension between a brand’s salivating at the possibility of buzz and its refusal to risk pushing away any key demographic groups. To the extent that causes and advertisements line up, it’s only a marriage of convenience — often, one without real compatibility. This is how you end up with a spot that says that racialized police brutality is really a big misunderstanding that can be solved with a soda and a Kendall Jenner fist bump. Advertising has long had a parasitic relationship with culture, most infamously when it comes to themes associated with African-Americans — even when the goal is not to specifically reach that audience. Yes, there are talented ad folks who truly believe that their work can push boundaries and make meaningful cultural commentary while accomplishing their primary, moneymaking goal. But their lack of understanding about the experiences they aim to turn into commercials means this often fails. One of the most frequent observations about “Jump In” is that it rang so hollow that it’s amazing no one involved in its creation anticipated this blowback. That’s less surprising when you realize that minorities are underrepresented in advertising. For example, one report found that only 5.3 percent of managers and professionals at agencies in 2008 were black. Eight years later, in 2016, some major brands still unsatisfied with diversity numbers resorted to threatening to take their business away from agencies that didn’t take steps to improve. When a few members of underrepresented groups do manage to be in the room, putting the onus on them to speak up about ads like this one is unfair. That comes with its own set of personal and professional risks. “Pepsi was trying to project a global message of unity, peace and understanding,” the company said in a statement on Wednesday. “Clearly, we missed the mark.” That also misses the point: The contours of the advertising industry mean this mark is nearly impossible to hit, and a questionable goal. Even if “Jump In” had been executed more skillfully, it was always going to close with a Pepsi logo, a gesture that immediately undermines any attempt at serious sociocultural point. Its garbled “Can’t we all just get along?” messaging is an answer to a question that’s proved historically elusive. To pull off an ad that nodded to the contemporary fight against racism, Pepsi would’ve had to somehow acknowledge a point of view without trying to adopt it wholesale, speaking on behalf of a community it didn’t understand, or exaggerating its own awareness. That’s a tall order, and it’s hard to think of brands that have done this well. If advertising presumes to resonate on any deeper level, before it can be a force for social good, it has to be realistic about what it can’t do. “Jump In” is a two-and-a-half minute example of that.