The symmetry is almost mind-boggling. Candidate Donald J. Trump boasts on tape of forcing himself on women, and women flood the internet with raw memories of when they were groped or assaulted. Bill O’Reilly, of Fox News, reaches five settlements after allegations of sexual harassment, and women flood the internet with raw memories of everyday humiliations at work, from leering bosses to crude attacks. President Trump defends his good friend Mr. O’Reilly, saying he never should have settled and he didn’t do anything wrong. Six months ago, the release of the “Access Hollywood” tape with Mr. Trump’s comments prompted widespread revulsion and equally widespread predictions that it would doom his candidacy. But women who voted for him either shrugged it off as how men talk among themselves or decided that his promises to create jobs and tighten borders mattered more. And Mr. Trump’s swagger was a dog whistle for those men who felt women’s gains were their losses. The lesson Mr. Trump apparently drew is that powerful men are not going to be held accountable. That wider sense of impunity is one reason women often decide not to report sexual harassment, even as Mr. O’Reilly has denied the accusations and cites the lack of such calls to hotlines in his defense. Fox is a case in point. Multiple lawsuits, accounts of women who worked there and even an internal investigation that resulted in the departure of the chief executive of Fox News, Roger Ailes, all suggested a “Mad Men”-style workplace, where women were often harassed. Female employees reported being pressed to trade sexual favors for advancement, explicit sex talk, groping and more. On-air, disdain and contempt for feminism were openly expressed. Feminists were dismissed as unattractive, shrill harridans or ridiculed as politically correct scolds. In Fox’s world, women do not encounter systemic oppression. Some of its most prominent female anchors publicly rejected the label of feminist. The money being made by Mr. Ailes and Mr. O’Reilly put off any broader reckoning with the culture that was being created and perpetuated at Fox. Even after the public airing of the charges against Mr. Ailes and what Fox’s own investigation uncovered, the sons of the channel’s founder Rupert Murdoch reportedly had to intervene to persuade him to negotiate a departure. And even after Fox pledged that demeaning behavior toward women would no longer be tolerated, two more settlements were reached concerning Mr. O’Reilly. Sexual harassment may be a firing offense at companies, at least in theory, but it remains part of the American workplace. A female engineer’s account of her experience at Uber is just one of the latest reminders, along with the social media outpouring. So what would it take to make sexual harassers stop? It’s true that some executives have been forced out over accusations of sexual harassment. The senior vice president of engineering at Uber, Amit Singhal, was dismissed  after Recode revealed that he had not told Uber he had left Google in a dispute about sexual harassment claims that an internal investigation had found credible. Even Thinx, the woman-led start-up selling absorbent underwear for periods, was roiled by accusations that its chief executive, Miki Agrawal, inappropriately talked about sex and touched the breast of one of her female employees. She resigned, even while denying some of the complaints. At the moment, advertisers are fleeing Mr. O’Reilly’s show — though redirecting their ads elsewhere within Fox. Uber saw customers delete its app in response to sexual harassment charges as well as other complaints about an abrasive, aggressive culture and actions. The “grab your wallet” boycott has prodded retailers including Nordstrom, Neiman Marcus and T.J. Maxx to drop merchandise s connected to Ivanka Trump. But the staying power of such movements is unclear, although the passion is real. A resistance movement has sprung up largely powered by women repelled at what the election wrought. They confront a White House dominated by white men making policies that threaten women’s health care and propose to slash money for social programs that have benefited poor and working-class women. Oh, and the other day, President Trump declared April Sexual Assault Awareness Month.