LONDON — Almost one-third of top-end property purchases in America’s biggest cities are suspect, according to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the body at the Treasury Department whose task it is to protect the United States from money laundering. The government recently granted FinCEN authority to peek behind the veil of secrecy provided by offshore shell companies, and what the bureau has seen is disturbing: There is a flood of dirty capital pouring into United States real estate, and it isn’t clear who owns it. Lately there has been substantial media interest in questionable Russian money invested in Donald J. Trump’s development projects. But in terms of volume, Russia is something of a distraction. Miami realtors say that Russia isn’t among the top 10 countries for investment in southern Florida, lagging far behind Venezuela, Brazil, Argentina and even the Dominican Republic. China was the leading investor in real estate in the United States by the end of 2015, with $350 billion in related investments and holdings, according to a 2016 Asia Society report. The numbers are necessarily approximate, however, since so much property is held offshore, through the kind of anonymous companies disclosed in the Panama Papers last year. Offshore is usually thought of as a place, somewhere palm-fringed and tropical, but that’s a misconception. Offshore is an idea: a parallel legal system for corporations, kleptocrats, celebrities or anyone else who can afford it. Offshore gives the wealthy a way to avoid taxes and regulations and to obscure their identities, thus undermining the ability of governments to keep them in check. Greedy rulers around the world steal billions from their people, then disguise the money and stash it offshore, usually in the West. The extraction of this much capital cripples the economies of source countries like Afghanistan, Nigeria or Ukraine, and breeds insecurity and violence there. Offshoring is also a problem for host states. If a government doesn’t know who owns the country it runs, how can it know how those owners will behave in a crisis? It wasn’t supposed to work this way. At the end of World War II, the Allies decided to build an international financial system that would safeguard their victory. Central to their plan were restrictions on the streams of hot money that had so unsettled the world between the two wars. Because these governments prioritized global stability over return on investment, they would control how investment moved between countries. This arrangement helped generate broad-based prosperity, but it bothered anyone with spare capital to invest. Foreign markets were now largely closed to the rich, and the wealthy’s money was vulnerable to being taxed heavily at home. Switzerland, with its secret banking, seemed to provide a way out — except that once money was in a Swiss bank, there wasn’t much that could be done with it. So a group of talented bankers in London decided to put that money to work. In July 1963, they arranged for Italy to borrow $15 million in defiance of the capital controls. The idea was simple; the way they structured it was not. Thanks to a clever game of jurisdictional Twister, they created a dollar-denominated bond that wasn’t taxed or regulated anywhere: the “Eurobond.” Thousands of such bonds were soon sold, giving birth to one of the largest capital markets in the world — entirely beyond the jurisdiction of any government. Offshore finance was born, and democratic control over capital was doomed. Investors in the new bonds were primarily tax-dodging Westerners, but they also included kleptocrats and organized-crime groups. By making the bonds anonymous, portable and redeemable anywhere, the London bankers deliberately made it easy for buyers to hide their identity. This is the original sin that explains why the offshore system has remained so durable. The privacy it allows, either through shell companies or anonymous bank accounts, is as useful to regular businesspeople as to fraudsters or kleptocrats. Any effort to crack down on, say, mobsters who stash their money in New York real estate also inconveniences corporations seeking to minimize their taxes, and thus triggers concerted opposition. Offshore often happens right at home. The laws in Delaware and Nevada offer companies similar benefits as the laws in the British Virgin Islands. In fact, according to one in-depth study of companies that create companies, it is far easier to set up a corporate structure without being asked to confirm one’s identity in the United States than it is in notorious tax havens, like the Cayman Islands, Jersey or the Isle of Man. The Russian arms dealer Viktor Bout is just one of many criminals to have hidden behind Delaware’s shell companies. Mr. Trump has used corporate structures in that state to hold assets, including a Scottish helicopter; Hillary Clinton, to receive speaking fees. But what’s good for large corporations and rich individuals can be disastrous for society. Experts at the F.B.I., Britain’s Serious Fraud Office and other leading investigators of grand corruption say shell companies are the primary obstacle to bringing the world’s fraudsters to justice. One Miami lawyer told me they are like armor plating: Shell companies own other companies across multiple jurisdictions, creating layers of corporate plating so thick it becomes all but impenetrable. Law enforcement in the United States leads the world in investigating and prosecuting corruption, but the country still lags badly in terms of transparency, despite FinCEN’s new powers. Britain has a freely accessible, central online register of all companies, and anyone who creates a new company has to declare its actual owners. The system is flawed, not least because the information provided is not checked. But it’s a good first step toward ending the abuses enabled by anonymous companies. America should adopt something similar. The British Parliament is also considering implementing “unexplained wealth orders,” which would force criminals or foreign officials to justify how they came to own luxury goods or expensive real estate. Those who cannot prove they secured the financing legally would see their property confiscated. These two measures alone can’t be enough to reveal the true owners of the anonymous money that is buying up so much of the West. But they can go a long way toward depriving dictators and thieves of a haven for their dirty cash, while helping officials in democracies regain control over who is buying the countries they were elected to run.