This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. The first two big elections of the Trump presidency are nearly here. This morning, I offer a brief guide: On Tuesday, voters in Wichita, Kan., and the surrounding counties will vote in a special House election. The following Tuesday, voters in a House district in suburban Atlanta will go to the polls. Both districts lean Republican. The reason that they’re having special elections is that President Trump chose their congressmen, Mike Pompeo of Kansas and Tom Price of Georgia, to serve in his administration. Yet Trump is sufficiently unpopular and Democrats are sufficiently energized that, while a Democratic victory in either race would be a major upset, it’s not out of the question. The Georgia race has received more national attention so far, including a wave of donations and celebrity get-out-the-vote drives. It’s the kind of race Democrats will need to win next year to take back the House: a suburban, well-educated district where Trump struggled last year, as Nate Cohn of The Times and Harry Enten of FiveThirtyEight have noted. Trump beat Hillary Clinton by fewer than two percentage points, even though Mitt Romney won the district by 23 points in 2012. This House election, on April 18, is a first-round election. It features a large slate of candidates, the top two of whom move onto a June runoff — unless one candidate receives at least 50 percent of the vote in the first election and thus becomes the winner. One route to victory for the leading Democrat, a 30-year-old filmmaker and former Congressional aide named Jon Ossoff, would be so much Democratic enthusiasm that he clears the 50-percent threshold in round one. Otherwise, the district’s conservative voters will coalesce around whichever Republican finishes second, making Ossoff an underdog in the runoff. Republicans are scared enough to be running ugly ads trying to link Ossoff to Al Qaeda, as Daniel Nichanian notes. In Kansas, it would be a true shock if the Democrat — a civil-rights lawyer named James Thompson — won. Trump won the district by 27 points. But the race is still worth some attention. Politico’s Elena Schneider reported that national House Republicans have bought last-minute television ads in the district, a sign of nervousness. “Kansas should not be in play,” one Republican in the state said, “but Kansas is in play.” If the Republican, state treasurer Ron Estes, wins by substantially less than 27 points, it would be a sign of party weakness. Up next, after Georgia’s vote: another special election next month, this one in Montana, featuring a Democratic candidate who’s “a legendary folk singer with a populist flair.”