WASHINGTON — Paul Ryan, the House speaker, is by all accounts a man of integrity and intelligence. When it came to the failed attempt by House Republicans to scrap President Obama’s legacy health care law and replace it with something that better reflected their conservative values, Mr. Ryan did as well as could be expected given the sharp divisions within his party’s ranks. But it may be time for him to quit his post as speaker. It is a position for which, thus far, he has proved remarkably unsuited and in which he has allowed the House to suffer a series of humiliations. As its central feature, the Constitution mandates a deliberate separation between the legislative and administrative, or executive, branches of government. This is not a matter of architecture, a quirk of structural whim. The separation is intended to ensure that no single person or branch of government will amass an excess of power and that the citizenry will retain a firm grip on the government’s policy-making process. If the Congress cedes its independence, the entire constitutional framework, which depends on a system of checks and balances, is compromised. Maintaining that carefully constructed system is a particular duty of the speaker. Mr. Ryan, though pledged to uphold the Constitution, has taken to acting as though he and the Republicans he leads are members of the White House staff. Under Mr. Ryan’s leadership, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, in the midst of conducting hearings looking into possible wrongdoing by the president or his advisers, briefed the president on the progress and findings of the investigation. The chairman, Devin Nunes, facing ethics complaints over his conduct, has temporarily stepped down, with Mr. Ryan’s approval. But the speaker was under an obligation to have immediately removed Mr. Nunes from his chairmanship in order to assert the House’s independence from the White House. Instead, for days — because he, too, apparently sees himself as one of Donald Trump’s assistants — Mr. Ryan continued to back Mr. Nunes. That was a failure of omission, but there have also been failures of commission that have undermined the independence of the House. When President Trump demanded the health care bill be brought to the floor for a vote on a particular day last week, Mr. Ryan complied rather than telling Mr. Trump that the speaker, not the president, decides the House schedule. This was an opportunity for Mr. Ryan to assert the status of Congress as a separate branch, yet he reaffirmed his submissiveness. When it became clear there were not sufficient votes to pass the bill, Mr. Ryan went to the White House to argue for pulling it. But that was his call to make, not the president’s. The proper action for the speaker was to cancel the vote and inform the president accordingly. The toadiness of the legislative leadership, and the low regard in which it is held by the president’s entourage, have led to such previously unimaginable scenes as Stephen Bannon, a senior White House staff member, giving orders to members of Congress and demanding a copy of the leadership’s secret vote counts to create an enemies list for possible reprisals. Mr. Bannon should have been ordered to leave the Capitol. Again, it was Speaker Ryan’s job at that moment to assert the independence and equal status of the legislative branch. Instead, he obsequiously ran downtown to see the boss. During the presidencies of Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush, Republican congressional leaders, of whom I was one, saw ourselves as sharing a common purpose with our allies in the White House. There was no Republican speaker at the time, but there was a two-way street between the Capitol and the White House. The president’s legislative team met with congressional party leaders to see how they could be helpful and discuss what they could offer to those not yet on board with what the president and leadership wanted. When I led the House Republican team into a House-Senate conference on foreign assistance programs, presidential staff members were on hand to facilitate compromises — but the decisions were mine, not theirs. When we needed to force legislation out of committee for a vote on the House floor, I asked the vice president, Mr. Bush, to come to the Hill to help. He did, but at our initiative and to further the legislative strategy that House leaders, not the White House, had devised. We and the president were part of the same team but we were equal partners. The president is not “the boss”; he’s the head of a separate part of the government, just as the speaker is. For those who take seriously the Constitution’s designation of the Congress as the “first branch” and the nation’s lawmaker, it has been embarrassing to read reports of the president’s giving instructions to his acolytes on the Hill and tweeting advice and threats at House Republicans. The Republicans’ failure to repeal and replace Obamacare has been cast as a political defeat, but in one important respect it was a victory. By asserting the right to make their own decision, Republican representatives rejected the notion of the president as boss — and rejected also Mr. Ryan’s submissive catering to the will of the man in the White House. Granted, the Republican conference in the House is far different from what the leadership in my day had to reckon with. The party is more divided and its coalitions more attenuated, between conservatives and moderates, Trump loyalists and Trump skeptics. But there will always be one thing on which House Republicans should remain united, and that is the task of preserving the constitutional model of American government and the Congress’s independence from the executive branch. Mr. Ryan is widely regarded as an outstanding political leader with talents and character beyond question. But whatever other role he might be suited for, Mr. Ryan needs a serious attitude adjustment if he is to continue as speaker of the House. Mr. Ryan would do well to reflect that he is no longer simply a representative from Wisconsin with a penchant for some version of Jack Kemp’s economics. He is the man in charge of seeing that the constitutional model of the United States is safeguarded. If he cannot uphold that commitment, he should turn the job over to someone who can.