Growing up, I lived near a polo field, and on weekends I would bike out to the field’s edge and look on from a distance, too shy, too young and too unsure of how much of my allowance it would sap to join the spectators with their fancy hats. I wanted to get closer to the action, but even more I was dying to know what it felt like to be out there on the field. From what I could tell from my faraway spot on the tree line, you had to be male, South American and totally fearless to play polo. I did ride horses, but decent hunter-jumper though I was, I didn’t fulfill any of these other requirements. I stopped riding as a preteen, but by the time I was 38, I was as overworked and overburdened as any modern professional, and the thought of cellphone-free barns and the single-minded focus of being on horseback made me eager to return to the sport that used to bring me so much joy. But if I was getting back on a horse after all these years, went my reasoning, I might as well go big. I decided to try polo. I saw a man about a horse and another man about another horse until I finally found a trainer who offered to give me a free polo lesson. The sport needed recruits, he said, especially women. In the pen where he broke in polo ponies, I sat on a squat and sleepy quarter horse and tried to connect the mallet with the ball. Ninety minutes later, my wrist was shot, but I was hooked. Holding reins one-handed, hearing the sharp splat of a smacked ball, seeing the pony’s nostrils flaring as I charged forward with steely intent — surely, I felt, I was only several lessons away from going pro. Encouraged by my enthusiasm, the trainer suggested I track down a man named Felix, the club umpire at a prominent polo club in upstate New York. Felix could help me progress, I was assured. I scheduled a lesson with him for a late September morning, but when I showed up, it turned out that the club was shut down for the season. Felix was there, but was leaving for the Dominican Republic the next day. Too proud — or chivalrous — to admit his mistake, Felix scrambled to arrange a lesson. He put me on the only horse left at the barn: an indignant, pregnant mare who seemed about as pleased to have me on her back as you would think. In the end, it wasn’t a lesson so much as a cheerleading session in which Felix applauded my ability to stay on the horse. I was sent away with an invitation to return eight months later, when the club reopened in May. Impatient, I took to the internet and found a polo club 45 minutes from my house with an indoor arena: the Simsbury Polo Club at Folly Farm, in Connecticut. During my first lesson there, the instructor judged my stick-and-ball game redeemable; she said that after two more lessons, I could join her beginner’s league for a practice match. My first match with these folks was on a dark night in November. Our bush league consisted mostly of young kids: an 18-year-old show jumper, a 16-year-old collector of sunken World War II tank photos, a 15-year-old computer whiz and “deep web” fanatic and an absurdly gifted 12-year-old who — literally — ran circles around us all night. Our coach, Alison, an impassioned polo player and veterinary surgeon, generously encouraged my skittish ride-offs and forgave the time (O.K., times), I hit my own pony with the mallet. It wasn’t quite the polo I’d lusted after in my youth. But the speed! The contact! The absolute thrill of galloping somewhere for a purpose! I was actually playing polo. I wasn’t a sedentary writer with rapidly diminishing eyesight. I was an athlete. Periodically during that first match, Alison stopped the action to point out “teaching moments,” a euphemism — generally — for “one of you just fouled.” Although she usually found a way to transform even our most laughable efforts into something celebratory, at one point, witnessing our inability to free the ball from underneath our knot of ponies, she scooped it away and scored an astonishing goal herself, giving us a glimpse of the grace and power we could aspire to if we stuck with the game. Sticking with polo has meant playing with this motley crew every Wednesday night for months now, seldom with grace. The first time I fell off my horse was thanks to a teammate who struck my pony in the head with his mallet, sending me flying to the left where I’d been going for a “nearside,” while the poor pony decided to recover off to the right. My second spill occurred when my horse decided to test “my seat” by abruptly stopping from a canter. I did a full flip in the air over his neck and came down hard on my backside. I spent the rest of the game trotting dejectedly behind the gutsy 12-year-old, who instructed me, in no uncertain terms, to “get my head back in the game.” I felt rusty and fearful, and not a little jealous. These kids had their entire young adulthoods to perfect the sport. I was just one more fall away from having a permanently bad back. Despite the falls, the risk of more falls and the vast chunk of time the sport takes out of my workweek, I keep playing. There’s not another area of my life that currently demands the kind of confidence and risk taking that polo does. On Wednesday nights, I’m not a mom, I’m ageless; I’m not having a hard time working on a novel, I am a woman with a mallet, mounted on a horse, enjoying the small victories of one of the world’s oldest games. And for the first time in a long time, I’m not alone. My polo matches give me something missing from my long years of self-employment: teammates. The other night, when I was joking with the 12-year-old that I’d quit if I fell off again, she got very serious. “You can’t quit,” she said. “You’re part of the team now.” After all these years, I’ve finally moved in from the edge of the field. Now all I need are spectators in fancy hats.