Seattle — The ascent of Judge Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court has changed the Senate. No longer will a minority of its members be able to block the confirmation of nominees to the nation’s highest court. And his appointment has changed the presidency, which now benefits from an easier confirmation process. But what about the Supreme Court itself? Is Judge Gorsuch’s appointment likely to change the body he is joining? In the short term, yes, but not a whole lot. And in 2017 this is cause for relief. As the government reels from increasingly divisive partisanship, the federal judiciary has continued for the most part to serve as a rational, collegial and predictable branch of government. But over the long term, the realignment of checks and balances that accompanied Judge Gorsuch’s confirmation may mean that the Supreme Court will become more polarized and less stable. For the last year, the Supreme Court has been forced to play short-handed, after the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in February 2016 and the refusal of Senate Republicans to consider President Obama’s nominee, Merrick Garland. Yet, in the shadow of this dysfunction, the Supreme Court has managed to remain operational and effective. There is little reason to suspect that Judge Gorsuch will knock the court significantly off course once he is sworn in on Monday. Instead, the court is likely to continue down the same path it has been on for years: infuriating conservatives one day and delighting them the next; inducing a frenetic combination of cheers and tears among progressives. This refusal to follow strict partisan lines may appear to be haphazard. But for those watching closely, the Supreme Court’s decisions track earlier precedents, and the outcomes tend to be predictable. This steady course is partially a result of what has been, by and large, a consensus-driven nomination process, coupled with our constitutional structure, which protects judges and justices from political pressures once they escape the bright lights of confirmation hearings. And it is also a result of the current composition of the Supreme Court, which for over a decade has seen one justice — Anthony M. Kennedy — join the controlling opinion in almost all cases decided by narrow but shifting majorities. As a result, the court has recognized a right to same-sex marriage but invalidated part of the Voting Rights Act, rejected restrictions on corporate spending in elections but halted states’ efforts to execute the intellectually disabled, and aggravated just about everyone involved in the debate over reproductive rights. The addition of Judge Gorsuch might tip things a bit, particularly in some less sensational (but still important) areas, such as administrative law. For example, Judge Gorsuch may be less inclined than his predecessor to defer to the work of regulatory agencies. But given that Judge Gorsuch appears to be a close match for Justice Scalia, the math generally should zero out: His presence probably won’t frequently upset what has been the court’s longstanding 5-4 balance. As a result, Judge Gorsuch’s former boss, Justice Kennedy, is expected to remain a decisive vote in the court’s closest and most controversial cases. In the near future, these contentious cases are likely to address a range of issues, such as states’ rights, the power of the presidency, First Amendment protections and voting rules. Already before the court is a challenge to Wisconsin’s politically based redrawing of legislative districts. Next in line may be claims addressing a variety of unfolding controversies, including the constitutionality of the travel ban, the rights of sanctuary jurisdictions and the rollback of environmental regulations. But that’s all in the short term. What is harder to predict is how Judge Gorsuch’s confirmation might affect the Supreme Court in the long term, as an institution. By eliminating the filibuster to secure the judge’s confirmation, Republicans in the Senate have done more than change the body’s internal procedures; they have recalibrated the separation of powers. They have reduced the Senate’s ability to demand compromise and have accorded the president greater power to appoint his preferred candidates. No longer must a president appeal to 60 senators from across the country, representing a range of interests, to shepherd a nominee through the process. Now all a president needs is a bare majority. In light of this strengthened power to appoint, will President Trump, and future presidents, be less inclined to compromise in their selection of nominees? Will they choose to push their agendas further, selecting jurists who are likely to move the law in a more controversial and dramatic fashion? And in light of the treatment of Judge Garland, will a president be able to secure confirmation of a nominee only when the Senate is controlled by the same party? What seems likely, now that the elimination of the filibuster has transferred power from the Senate to the president, is that future Supreme Court nominees will appeal to a narrower range of senators. These nominees may also be more accommodating of executive power. And there is a good chance that they will be more appealing to the most engaged members of the president’s base, which often translates into the most ideologically extreme. In short, future Supreme Court nominees are less likely to be compromise candidates, which means the Supreme Court of the future may be less likely to maintain the sort of long-term ideological balance that we have today. Hopefully the Supreme Court, over the next few years and decades, will adjust well to its new composition. But changes that reduce the need for compromise are worrisome. While the Supreme Court may not be perfect, its stability has helped it manage what is, overall, a healthy and functioning judiciary. The other branches would benefit from recognizing just how precious this arrangement is.