Right now, in my inbox, there are 367 unanswered emails. This is not because I don’t care about email — I very much do. I compulsively check mine every 10 minutes or so. But there is a whole batch of emails — 367 of them — that I have seen only a preview line of and then not even bothered to open. Instead, I let them linger, glaring at me. I am not a very confrontational person and forge close friendships strictly on the basis of who will cause the least interpersonal drama. So most of the emails that sit unopened are business emails, and nearly all of them are gentle reminders, urgent pleas and stern rebukes to please sign and return a form. Nobody tells you that a big part of being a writer is filling out forms, sending your Social Security number out into the ether. And all of these contracts for readings and $50 invoices for services rendered rear their heads again around now, their ghosts returning to haunt me via 1040 forms. Do not think I am complaining about the work. These are all things I am happy to get, eager to get, depend on getting and have enthusiastically pursued. But when it comes to actually filling out the forms for this work, I find that I cannot do it. An anxiety grips me, and I leave the email unopened and hope it disappears. When the follow-up emails become too many and too embarrassing to ignore, I force myself to download the form — a process that requires blasting distracting sounds in my headphones. This is the same method I use on the rare occasion the mousetrap under the sink needs emptying. Sometimes, the blaring sound in the headphones is Beyoncé yodeling “Freedom, freedom,” but more often than not, it’s the sneers and slights of the alpha females of the “Real Housewives of Atlanta.” “I bet those women never had to baby themselves into filling out a form,” I think. “They’re grown-ups,” my anxiety briefly clouding all of my reasoning. I am ashamed of this tendency. My mother instilled in me the belief that the greatest virtue is self-reliance. A favorite adage of hers that has become a favorite of mine is: “Success is the ability to completely take care of yourself and one other person.” The one other person is for what she jokingly called an “accident” — my mother was nothing if not keenly aware that she was a single mother with almost no money, raising girls. She taught us to budget our time with ruthless efficiency, so that even now, 20 years later, when I go to sleep I see in my mind the color-coded schedule for the next day’s work, blocked out hour by hour, the pattern she’d make us practice drawing every summer before the school year began. There is a special shame in being so anxious about these forms. “Flaky” was one of my mother’s many insults for the behavior that made the wider world unbearable. “You don’t want to be one of the flaky people.” And yet, who else has 367 unopened emails in their inbox? For many years, I had no way to explain this behavior, only the deep, burning shame that accompanied it. I am not proud of this, but in my early 20s, I lost jobs sometimes because of my inability to complete forms. It wasn’t until a few years ago that I finally confessed this anxiety to a close friend: “Oh, dude, I can’t do those forms. I get, like, almost a panic attack,” expecting him to laugh. But he didn’t. He turned and matter-of-factly said, “Oh, fear of forms is a sign of PTSD, you know,” and suddenly there was an explanation. There was a way to not feel ashamed, even though I still did. I think what it comes down to is that patch of my childhood, when my mother didn’t have money, when she was raising girls. When I was born, my family was upper middle class, but by the time I was 7, after my parents’ divorce, we’d slid all the way down to just below the poverty line. This new life was strange, if only because we were still in such close physical proximity to our old life — just, poorer. I remember the first time my mother used food stamps in the grocery store. This was before E.B.T. cards, so when you used your benefits, you had to use a different checkout line than everyone else. We were at the same grocery store we’d always gone to, my mother had stepped into the same line we’d always used. But the cashier had looked at the envelope in my mother’s hand and her expression changed, her voice became higher and her smile strange, as she told my mother that she couldn’t take her in that line, that we would have to move over. When you move through life with a certain sense of security, forms are sacrosanct. You believe them to be a necessary, valid part of life. You know they’re a pain — nobody likes to fill them out. But you have faith that they are there for a reason, and most important, they can contain the basic truth about you. If you have ever had to deal with the bureaucracy of poverty, of having to prove over and over again to those in charge how fundamentally unworthy you are, you understand that forms are not sacred. Recently, headphones blasting “Seven Nation Army” for courage, I began to fill out my application for my state’s health exchange. This is the message I recall seeing: “Click here to register with ny.gov before you register for health insurance.” I clicked. “Click here to register for the N.Y. state marketplace before you register for ny.gov,” the next page told me. There are government agencies that use their forms to try to help you. And there are those that seem to have designed their forms to remind you of the audacity of expecting your government to help you with anything. It’s tax season now, of course. I have been stacking my various W2s in a raggedy pile on my kitchen table. I look at those forms and I think of my mother again, of her insistence on her own worth in the face of a million boxes and check marks telling her she did not have any. My mother who also stacks her financial papers in a pile on her kitchen table — it’s where I got that very helpful filing system. She draws and doodles over that pile all year long, curlicues and diamonds inked in black, so sure of herself, despite what a form says about her, that she can draw cartoons across the judgmental piece of paper, as if to say, “I am here, I am here, no matter what.”