For more than a decade, women have publicly lodged sexual harassment complaints against the Fox News host Bill O’Reilly. In 2004, a producer on his show, Andrea Mackris, filed a lawsuit accusing him of harassing her with sexually explicit phone calls. Tabloids and late-night TV hosts seized on the lurid details, which included telling her to buy a vibrator, calling her while apparently masturbating and engaging in one-sided phone sex entailing loofas — some of which Ms. Mackris said she recorded. But the case was settled without a trial or much public insight into what actually happened. Mr. O’Reilly has continued in his role as a prime-time host at the network all these years since, making tens of millions of dollars. He is in a more precarious place now. In the past week, at least 52 advertisers have pulled their ads from O’Reilly’s program, including Advil, Mercedes-Benz and Jenny Craig. What changed? A news report in The New York Times exposed a number of payments made in secret to other women accusing the host of sexual harassment over the years. Nothing has substantively changed since the details of Ms. Mackris’s treatment were exposed in her lawsuit. But now the public is privy to other women who say they suffered the same abuse, and aware of the backdoor deals that were struck to keep them quiet. Settlements may bring some bit of justice and redress for the victims. They can sometimes even result in major personnel changes, such as the former Fox News chairman Roger Ailes’s ouster after a settlement with the former anchor Gretchen Carlson. But 40 percent of women still say they experience sexual harassment at work. When they risk coming forward, many of them are either enticed or forced into private settlements outside of the courts by employers who want to avoid a public reckoning. Thanks to private settlements, we confront a very tiny sliver of their stories. When Ms. Carlson sued Mr. Ailes over allegations of sexual harassment and numerous other women came forward with similar stories, the Fox News chief was pushed out. The company even went as far as to internally investigate claims of rampant sexual harassment and apologize to Ms. Carlson for what she endured. It seemed a toxic culture was about to be cleansed. But without an actual spotlight on what’s really going on inside Fox, not much appears to have changed. As at Fox, our entire culture, which still permits sexual harassment to stalk women in the workplace, won’t change if employers can ensure that the repercussions for such permissiveness keep getting handed out behind closed doors. The settlements in both Ms. Carlson’s and Ms. Mackris’s cases help illustrate this. Despite the tabloid headlines, Ms. Mackris’s case never got much of a public airing. The two sides settled, and the terms were kept secret. Mr. O’Reilly has followed this same pattern over the years. According to The Times, at least five women have received payments from either him or Fox that together total about $13 million, most of which were never previously made public. Many of the payments have come with agreements that the women won’t speak about what happened to them. The women involved have hopefully gotten some justice through the compensation. But their required silence most likely meant that justice for others was elusive. Ms. Carlson’s settlement was more out in the open. Fox agreed to pay her $20 million, making the figure public in a statement alongside its apology. But she had been seeking an airing through trial. She fought hard against being forced into private arbitration. Buried in Fox’s contracts with its employees is fine print saying that they can’t bring lawsuits against the company in court. Instead, those disputes have to be settled by a private entity with the details kept private, too. If some victims are lured into settlements, arbitration ensures others have no choice. It’s a relatively common situation for employees to confront: In 2010, an estimated 27 percent of non-unionized American workers were subjected to arbitration clauses. Arbitration tilts the tables toward the employer: Employees win only about a fifth of the time in such a situation, about half as successful as in federal or state court. Ms. Carlson was on track to skirt this issue by suing Mr. Ailes himself, not Fox, and thus not running afoul of her contract. That would have cleared the way for her to hash it out in court. Most contracts are much narrower and don’t allow for this kind of end run. Dollar amounts matter. They can scare employers. The legal secretary Rena Weeks sued the law firm Baker & McKenzie over sexual harassment in the mid-1990s and netted a $3.5 million verdict, one of the largest harassment cases up to that point. But employees who are pushed into arbitration get payouts that are often significantly smaller than for those who go to federal court. And given that Ms. Weeks’s case was litigated in court, law firms were rattled not just by potentially large dollar amounts, but also by the risk of public scrutiny. The same happened with the landmark case brought on behalf of about 350 women against Mitsubishi in 1996. The suit outlined rampant harassment. And it resulted in a $34 million settlement, the largest on record at the time. Even more employers other than law firms began to take the issue seriously. No one knows why Ms. Carlson settled; she may have just wanted to put the whole ordeal behind her. The dollar figure was probably enticing. But what we do know is that the network avoided a high-profile court battle that could have exposed far more of its poisonous culture to the public. Though Roger Ailes was forced out, it doesn’t seem that much improved for the women at Fox News. Julie Roginsky could change that. She filed a lawsuit alleging that she was sexually harassed by Mr. Ailes, including being made to bend over to kiss him in private professional meetings so that he could look down her shirt and being subjected to conversations about her sex life. She says she was then retaliated against by other executives, indicating a far larger culture problem. Because she isn’t an employee, but a contributor, she is unbound by arbitration restrictions, and her attorneys are asking New York City officials to investigate Fox’s treatment of women after the company’s internal investigation seems to have done so little. Bringing sexual harassment charges against an employer is never easy, and the victims who get settlements are the lucky ones. No one should begrudge them securing whatever bit of redress that they can. But when they win a private settlement, the rest of us lose.