ATHENS — Before Donald Trump’s election turned much geopolitical conventional wisdom on its head, if you were in the Greek government, you’d have to be a fool to proclaim, “Only America can help us.” But someone has, and the fact that it was a member of a coalition led by a radical left-wing party, Syriza — whose members have traditionally opposed United States policy — underlines the contradictions of a government comprising members of the extreme left and extreme right. It shows also how the past seven years of austerity and reforms have reshaped politics and attitudes. And it suggests that anti-Americanism in Greece has faded over the past few years, as the Obama administration supported Athens’s efforts to remain in the common European currency and preached against creditors’ harsh treatment. Above all, it suggests that in difficult times, old alliances become more precious. Suspicion and sometimes vilification of the United States by the left has been a standard feature of Greek politics since 1947, when the Truman Doctrine and later the Marshall Plan helped stave off a Communist victory in the civil war that followed World War II and the German occupation. Then, a right-wing military dictatorship from 1967 to 1974 had at least tacit support from Washington. Each year, a march commemorating the student revolt that triggered the end of the junta culminates at the United States Embassy, a constant reminder of a complicated past. Yet Defense Minister Panos Kammenos, leader of the junior coalition partner, recently sang the praises of the United States — and the sky did not fall on his head. “Only America can help us,” he declared in an interview with Greece’s Ant1 television. “Let’s not forget that in difficult times it was not the Europeans who helped us. The Marshall Plan, as part of the Truman Doctrine, provided aid to Greece without memorandums and without usurious interest.” The point was telling but his memory was selective: There were plenty of strings attached to United States aid, and Greece was under American tutelage; the European Stability Mechanism that loans money to Greece says that at the end of 2015, it charged below 1 percent interest for all beneficiary countries. A pro-American position from Mr. Kammenos’s right-wing Independent Greeks party in the time of “America First” Mr. Trump might not be so surprising. But in a recent meeting with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson in Washington, Foreign Minister Nikos Kotzias, a former member of the Communist Party, presented the role Greece can play as a pillar of stability. Also, the fact that other members of Greece’s government did not protest the defense minister’s enthusiasm for American assistance reflects the paradoxical nature of a coalition that was initially united by joint opposition to the bailout agreements but is now devoted to staying in power. It also fits the government’s arguments that Greece’s creditors — its European partners and the International Monetary Fund — are more culpable than the United States (or the Greek government) for the country’s woes. Many Greeks do not share this view. A poll conducted for the Dianeosis think tank late last year found that only 10 percent of respondents believed Greece would be better off leaving the eurozone and forging a relationship with the United States, while 37 percent preferred the eurozone and 33.4 percent thought an alliance with Russia would be better. A poll conducted in February found that 66 percent of respondents had a negative opinion of Mr. Trump; 37 percent believed his election would probably have a negative effect on Greece, while 20 percent thought it would be positive and 30 percent said it made no difference. (In November, a poll by the same company, Public Issue, found that 71 percent of respondents had a positive opinion of President Barack Obama.) The defense minister’s enthusiasm was heightened by a White House celebration of Greek Independence Day last month, at which President Trump declared: “I love the Greeks. Oh, do I love the Greeks. Don’t forget, I come from New York. That’s all I see is Greeks. They are all over the place.” He noted that his “really terrific and hardworking chief of staff” Reince Priebus is “one of the top Greeks in the country” and mentioned other members of his staff with Greek roots. “This love of freedom and democracy has formed a lasting bond between our two countries,” Mr. Trump said and, regarding the 1821 war of liberation against the Ottoman Turks, added: “American President James Monroe and the great American statesman Daniel Webster both supported Greece’s struggle for independence. And it was a tough, tough struggle, you know that.” Television footage showed Mr. Kammenos beaming and stretching out a hand to greet the president. He also met with Defense Secretary Jim Mattis to discuss the two countries’ alliance and common challenges, including migration, terrorism and instability in the Balkans, Northern Africa and the Middle East. “Secretary Mattis thanked Greece for being one of five NATO allies that invests 2 percent of its G.D.P. on defense, and expressed his appreciation to Minister Kammenos for hosting U.S. forces at Souda Bay, Crete,” a Pentagon spokesman, Capt. Jeff Davis, said. Regarding Souda Bay, Secretary Mattis noted that maybe there was “some need to expand it a little bit. We’ll certainly look at that.” He added: “There is a clear and present danger on the southern flank, which puts Greece as a front line nation in dealing with terrorism,” and concluded, “we’ve got to stick together.” The United States and Greece have been friends since the founding of the modern Greek state (when a combined British-French-Russian fleet defeated an Ottoman-Egyptian fleet at the Battle of Navarino in 1827). Αfter World War II, American support kept the Greek economy functioning and prevented a Communist victory. But United States officials were far more worried about supporting the dysfunctional Greek state than Mr. Kammenos’s recent comments would suggest. In February 1947, the chief of the American Economic Mission to Greece, Ambassador Paul A. Porter, in a dispatch to the under secretary of state for economic affairs, William L. Clayton, expressed fear that unless the Greek government took necessary measures, it would face financial collapse. Ambassador Porter commented on a “widespread belief that our job really is to bail out Greece irrespective of the cost.” He concluded: “We will probably recommend in our final report that American financial aid be conditioned upon effective efforts of the Greek government to carry out minimum economic reforms such as foreign exchange controls and adequate taxation, and we will recommend that these efforts be judged by several Americans sent to Greece for that purpose. Not only should this lead to a wiser expenditure of the money, but it will give the Greek government the added benefit of absolutely necessary reforms, which it is apparently incapable of imposing itself.” Greece’s partners in the European Union, which have provided 226.4 billion euros of the 258.2 billion disbursed so far in the bailout programs, would see the irony in Mr. Porter’s observations. They would also note that this time around, the United States has contributed only through its participation in the International Monetary Fund, which has lent Greece 31.8 billion euros. Whereas European officials have tried to keep Greece in the eurozone and have pressed successive governments to implement reforms, Mr. Trump, unlike Mr. Obama, has said Greece would be better off leaving the euro. Challenges and dangers in Greece’s region and the rest of the world are growing, especially as fellow NATO ally and traditional rival Turkey grows increasingly unpredictable. However simplistic the slogans that get leaders elected — from Athens to Washington — the nations may quickly see the need, as Secretary Mattis put it, “to stick together.”