“If Trump does not go down the path of a carbon tax, we should not lose our resolve. We should stick to our values as Canadians to do something to protect the environment.” — Michael Crothers, Canada, November, 2016 “Climate change is happening. We think a broad-based carbon price is the right answer.” — Steve Williams, Canada, May, 2015 “Carbon pricing systems encourage the quickest and most efficient ways of reducing emissions widely.” — Ben van Beurden, the Netherlands, October, 2015 “A global carbon price would help to unleash market forces and provide the right incentives for everyone to play their part. History has shown the power of market forces in making economies less energy intensive as people have found more efficient ways to use energy.” — Bob Dudley, Britain, February, 2015 “One option being discussed by policy makers is a national revenue-neutral carbon tax. This would promote greater energy efficiency and the use of today’s lower-carbon options, avoid further burdening the economy, and also provide incentives for markets to develop additional low-carbon energy solutions for the future.” — Darren Woods, United States, February 2017 So, what’s the big deal? Support for putting a price on carbon emissions is hardly newsworthy. Virtually every environmentalist thinks it’s crucial;  many believe it’s the single most important thing we could do. But Michael Crothers doesn’t work for an environmental organization. He’s the president of Shell Canada. Steve Williams is head of Suncor, Canada’s largest oil company. Ben van Beurden is chief executive of Royal Dutch Shell. Bob Dudley is chief executive of BP. Darren Woods? That statement was part of his first blog post in his new job: chairman and chief executive of Exxon Mobil, replacing Rex Tillerson, the new secretary of state — who also endorsed a carbon tax. All of these energy companies favor a tax on every ton of carbon emissions, which is one of two ways to price emissions. The other way is called “cap and trade” — creating a market in emissions by imposing a maximum. Companies who want to exceed the level can buy the right from others who pollute less. Let’s assume for now that this support for a carbon tax is genuine. (More about this later.) In the age of Trump, this is a gift that shouldn’t be wasted. Could it actually happen? I’m not proposing to bet on its success, but a carbon tax plan written by the Climate Leadership Council, a group of prominent Republicans that includes George Shultz, James A. Baker III and Henry Paulson, has at least started a debate. The group proposes taxing each ton of carbon emissions — and then returning all the money to Americans by sending everyone a quarterly dividend check. The organization claims that if the plan is fully implemented, it would alone achieve twice the reductions of all Obama-era regulations combined, allowing America to meet the high end of its obligations under the Paris climate accord. So the plan would scrap the Clean Power Plan and other regulations it says would become superfluous. Because it reduces regulation and relies on the market, the idea intrigues conservatives. Nearly half of voters for President Trump support a carbon tax that reduces other taxes by an equal amount. Ted Halstead, the founder of the leadership council, said that in a few weeks the group will announce its initial corporate supporters, including energy companies. Dozens of editorial pages, liberal and conservative, have endorsed the proposal. As for the White House, last week an official said the administration was considering a carbon tax — but hours later, a spokeswoman said it wasn’t. Tillerson and Ivanka Trump want the United States to stay in the Paris climate accords. If that happens, the administration must have a way to meet America’s obligations. Oil companies that support a carbon tax do so because they are also gas companies, and carbon pricing would help gas replace coal in the power generation business. They also know that the likely alternative is a patchwork of regulations. “If you accept that society is going to deal with this problem, you want approaches you can understand, manage and work,” said Nicolette Bartlett, director of carbon pricing at CDP, a global organization through which companies disclose their environmental impacts. “Market-based approaches give you this.” Environmentalists I talked to said that Suncor, Shell, BP and some other oil companies are serious about a carbon tax. These companies acknowledge climate change and have made specific carbon proposals and offers of help. As for Exxon Mobil, now would be a great time to show that its endorsement means something. Tillerson’s support for a tax in 2009 was aimed in part at killing a cap-and-trade bill in Congress, and Exxon Mobil pours money into the campaigns of legislators who vote against carbon pricing. Other American companies like Chevron and ConocoPhillips don’t even bother with the public relations. When done right, carbon taxes can work. Sweden has had one since 1991. Emissions have dropped while the economy has grown steadily. Britain instituted a carbon tax in 2013, and the use of coal plummeted — a major reason, alongside regulations, that its carbon emissions have dropped to a level last seen in 1894. In addition, consumers have switched to more efficient appliances, and the combination has allowed their electricity bills to drop. (Here’s a roundup of countries with taxes; many more are now starting.) One lesson from these countries, however, is that carbon taxes can be hard to sustain. Australia began one in 2012 — and ended it in 2014. The tax successfully cut emissions. But Australians hated paying more for electricity, and only some tax money returned to them as compensation for the increase. When the tax vanished, emissions took a sharp turn up again. Canada is about to get a nationwide price on carbon; Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced that provinces must either institute a carbon tax or cap and trade — or next year the national government will impose one or the other on them. But Canada already has the hemisphere’s most comprehensive carbon tax — in British Columbia, where a conservative party introduced it in 2008. It started low, as it had at other places, so that people could shift their energy practices, and then increased yearly. It worked; emissions in British Columbia dropped more than three times as much as in the rest of Canada. And economic growth was not affected. But it’s not working now. A new provincial government has kept it frozen since 2012, with no increases. Not coincidentally, 2012 was the year that emissions started creeping up again. Last year, more than 130 businesses, including energy companies, asked the provincial government to resume increases in the tax. Citizens, too, have supported it, with only 32 percent opposed in 2015. But there has been no clamor from voters for increases on a scale that would keep it effective, even though all the money would go back to taxpayers through cuts in personal and business income taxes, as well as a tax credit for the poor. The link between tax and dividend is too hard to see. When they enjoy writing a smaller income tax check, British Columbians don’t think “thank you, carbon tax.” The lesson: Carbon taxes don’t work if they’re too low to affect economic behavior. And they certainly don’t work if they are repealed. That challenge has something basic in common with others that hinder climate change action. “Advocates are trying to convince their fellow citizens to make short-term sacrifices now for the benefit of other people, in other countries, in 40 years,” said Halstead. “It doesn’t take into account human nature.” Americans love some taxes — the Social Security tax, for one. They think of it as a benefit, not a tax, and the connection between what they pay and what they later collect is clear. Halstead thinks his group’s proposal could turn a carbon tax into a carbon dividend. As the tax rises from its $40 per ton starting point, so would Americans’ quarterly checks. The organization estimates that once the plan is fully implemented — when the tax on gasoline reaches about $2 per gallon — a family of four would be getting $5,000 each year in dividends. Carbon taxes alone are normally regressive — they hurt the poor. But a dividend can make the plan progressive: In the proposed plan, the bottom 70 percent of Americans would get more than they paid out. To avoid penalizing American business, the leadership council proposes border adjustments — extra fees on imports from countries with no carbon tax, and tax rebates to American companies that export to countries with no carbon tax. This would also encourage other countries to adopt a tax. There’s much here for environmentalists to dislike. It would repeal the Clean Power Plan (which President Trump has already vowed to do) and phase out other federal regulations on emissions. But Charles Komanoff, an energy policy analyst who directs the Carbon Tax Center (pro, obviously), said the Clean Power Plan has already done most of its job. “We are 79 percent of the way to our 2030 goal,” he said. “We’d be trading away a veteran player whose best days are behind him.” The plan would also protect fossil fuel companies from lawsuits: “Robust carbon taxes would also make possible an end to federal and state tort liability for emitters,” said the Leadership Council. This likely will mean … whatever oil companies want it to mean. Halstead argues that it’s necessary to win Republican support. And he’s right that a climate change activist wants to punish oil companies that lied about climate change, he or she probably wants something else even more: to drastically cut our carbon emissions. Since the public’s support would come from the dividends, the tax money would not be subsidizing clean technologies. Neither would it be helping those harmed by climate change or the fossil fuel industry. Nor retraining coal miners or helping workers adjust to a greener economy. And labor union insistence on what it calls a “just transition” is so strong that it helped defeat a Washington State proposal for a carbon tax last year. (The Koch brothers were the other major opponent. Go figure.) A year ago, no one who cared about the environment would have considered trading all this away. But climate policy is in the hands of climate deniers now, and we are staring at catastrophe. The only path is for businesses, especially oil companies, to seize the lobbying machinery they have used to deny climate change and block regulation, and throw it behind the carbon tax that at least the largest of them claims to support. What an irony that the best hope for the climate right now seems to be for Exxon Mobil to lead the charge.