The bar was in Doylestown, Pa. It wasn’t one of those places that would become the centerpiece of a story because the neighborhood or the venue or the crowd made you fear for your life. It wasn’t a show where you dodged beer bottles being flung at your head or indifference flung in your face. But it was the kind of place you hoped would be firmly in your rear view when you finally got that TV credit you’d been wanting for years and hopefully – oh, yes, please! – left the world of $250 one-nighters in bars in Doylestown, Pa., behind. “I saw you last time you were here and thought of you when I saw this.” The fan — well, bar patron (I mean, can you really call someone a “fan” if they’ve seen you twice in Doylestown?) — shoved it into my hands as I attempted to make my way out of the crowded bar post-show. I looked down and I was holding a dog-eared vinyl copy of the “Hello Dummy!” live album (1968) by Don Rickles. “I want you to have this because you remind me of him.” Looking up at me was the crooked smile of the guy I’d seen on the Dean Martin roasts as a kid, when I would sit in the tiny TV room around the only set in the house with my dad, my mom, my brother and my sister — just the five of us, big bowls of popcorn and tall glasses of milk when everything just seemed to fit and before everyone went away. Everything was in this guy’s face: the plastered-on little-boy smile that I imagined was champing at the bit to say, “We done yet, ya dummy photographer?”; the forehead, shiny with sweat and the spotlight and the fun; and those eyes that lured you to “Come closer, I’m not going to hurt you,” and then POW! Rickles’s act was a series of punches. Actually, no, Rickles’s act was one big counterpunch because with him, nobody got in a shot first. He told the legendary booze-hound Dean Martin, “You would love the evening … if you knew you were here!” He berated the sportscaster Howard Cosell for his less-than-lifelike toupee. To the American treasure Jimmy Stewart, he yelled: “I spoke to the family, Jimmy! You’re doing well!” in the volume reserved for the most elderly and hearing-impaired, then as an aside grumbled, “Last night, he fell into his own pants” and rolled his eyes. Those eyes! That’s why on that cover of “Hello Dummy!” I couldn’t stop looking at those eyes that said: “I am going to beat you senseless with my words. I am going to pummel you. I will call you every manner of racial and sexual slur. I will assault your physical imperfections and your wife’s too. However, while these words are being said to you, you are going to know that behind these eyes and in my heart, I like you — no, I love you — and you will know that you can trust your feelings and your insecurities with these eyes. You will walk away from this a happier person who felt included and special and held.” Now, at this point, I would love to tell you that the moment I came home from that show in Doylestown I whipped the cover off “Hello Dummy!,” listened to it over and over and learned countless lessons at the Master of Malice’s feet. But it was the year 2000 — even I didn’t have a turntable anymore. So I hung that album cover on my wall. Since his death last week, Don Rickles — the man Johnny Carson nicknamed Mr. Warmth — has been tweeted about, talked about, written about, cried about. People have talked about his blazingly brave comedy path; his sharp sense of humor that could cut even Frank Sinatra to the quick; his strengths as a devoted family man and charitable human being. Saying, “He will be missed,” is not only an understatement, but also something that after hearing, Rickles himself would look at me and say: “Really? Is that the best you can do, Dummy?” Over my quarter-century as an insult comic, I have joked many times, “When is that old Jew Rickles gonna die so I can be the only insult comic in the world?” But that’s like when you joke around the Thanksgiving table to your parents, “When are you two gonna die so I can get the house?” As an insult comic and as a family member, you say those things but you realize, whenever they go, it will be too soon. And you actually hope that day will never really come. Don Rickles warmed my childhood and he made it O.K. to do the comedy I like to do. He made it obvious that the warmer you are offstage, the more brutal you can be onstage. He made it O.K. to make fun of every type of person if you truly hold no prejudice against anyone. He said every horrible thing he could think of about everyone in every audience, and the result was that by the end of that show, everyone felt equal. Sure, Rickles insulted you, but he included you. Isn’t that the greatest compliment of them all?