The death of the judicial filibuster last week was overshadowed by Syrian airstrikes and White House turmoil, but the moment’s significance was also diminished by its inevitability. Senators made pious noises and partisans bemoaned the state of the republic, but the widespread Washington wisdom was that this was a fait accompli: After decades of “Butter Battle Book”-style escalations in the judicial wars, a minority veto was simply too antiquated, anachronistic and pre-ideological to survive. Maybe it could have persisted had Senate Democrats played a longer game, but only temporarily; however the Senate voted on Neil Gorsuch, the same forces that doomed Robert Bork and Merrick Garland would have doomed the filibuster hereafter. Given where we are now, that Beltway wisdom was probably correct. Whether we had to end up here, though, is a harder question. It’s possible that structural forces — the ideological sorting of the parties, the decay of the republic toward an executive-judicial diarchy — were always going to push the filibuster to extinction, no matter whether Bork was Borked or Garland pocket-vetoed. But if agency and contingency have a role in history, there is a crucial turning point that deserves to be remembered: the strange nomination and career of David Hackett Souter. Under our system, control of the Supreme Court functions as a somewhat delayed reward for winning ideological battles at the presidential level, and then as a check on the next ideological coalition as it’s taking power. Thus judicial appointees of the pre-New Deal era restrained Roosevelt’s liberalism for a time, and the judicial appointees from liberalism’s New Deal-Great Society heyday continued to advance liberal causes even as the Democratic coalition fell apart. In a similar way, the many Republican appointees from the long Reagan era, 1980-2008, should have constrained liberalism in our own era even as the Reagan coalition cracked and aged and failed. And to some extent they have: In the last eight years the Roberts court reshaped Obamacare even if it didn’t kill it, limited some of the Obama administration’s power grabs and advanced certain conservative goals left over from the Reagan years (on campaign finance and gun rights, notably). But on issues of burning concern to the Republican Party’s base — abortion above all, and then the gay-rights revolution and religious liberty — the court forged by Reagan and the Bushes has often been an enemy, not an ally, either consolidating social-liberal gains or advancing liberal causes even further. True, Anthony Kennedy sided with religious conservatives in the Hobby Lobby decision and on partial-birth abortion. But on the biggest cases — Planned Parenthood v. Casey, Lawrence v. Texas, Obergefell v. Hodges — and quite a few smaller ones, the post-Reagan Supreme Court has been an agent of social liberalism notwithstanding its many Republican-appointed members. Kennedy’s role as the swing vote means that most people remember the Bork hearings — and his nomination as Bork’s replacement — as the hinge that led to Casey and Obergefell. But a generally right-of-center justice who swings libertarian on social issues is the kind of figure you would expect to crop up in a roster of Republican-appointed jurists. Kennedy is distinctive, yes — but it was Souter who was the real outlier, Souter who really prevented the long era of Republican appointees from putting restraints on social liberalism, Souter who made today’s judicial battles seem more existential to the right than to the left. The strangeness of the Souter appointment has been magnified by the pitch of the judicial politics since, but it was strange even then. Basically unknown outside of upper New England, Souter was sold to George H. W. Bush by his chief of staff, John Sununu, and the moderate-to-liberal New Hampshire Republican Warren Rudman as an easy confirmation because he lacked a paper trail. Rudman and Sununu were quite right: Souter was confirmed 90 votes to 9, with only liberal activists and Ted Kennedy offering any substantial opposition. That opposition would look ironic in hindsight, since once on the bench Souter spent a brief time voting with the conservatives, then cast one of the crucial votes to uphold Roe, then swiftly evolved into as reliable a liberal as Bill Clinton or Barack Obama could have ever hoped to appoint … and then, as the by-then-inevitable coup de grâce, retired under Obama, allowing Sonia Sotomayor to take his place. For Republicans and conservatives, it was the most extraordinary of own goals — as if Obama had been persuaded by, say, Ben Nelson or Joe Lieberman to appoint a jurist who turned out to vote like Samuel Alito. Now imagine a counterfactual without this epic blunder. Had Souter simply voted like a typical Republican appointee — not in lock step with Antonin Scalia, but as an institutionalist, incrementalist conservative, in line with the current chief justice, John Roberts — then it’s likely that Roe v. Wade would have been mostly overturned in the 1990s, returning much of abortion law to the states, and that the gay rights movement would have subsequently advanced through referendums and legislation rather than a sweeping constitutionalization of cultural debate. This, in turn, would have dramatically lowered the stakes of judicial politics for many Republican voters, making an untimely event like Scalia’s death less of a crisis moment, a response like the Garland pocket veto less of a necessity and the candidacy of Donald Trump something more easily rejected. Indeed, I strongly suspect that in a world without the Souter own goal — a world where the Supreme Court had sided with cultural conservatives to the extent one would have expected given the number of recent Republican appointees — a nominee like Merrick Garland could still have been confirmed with Republican votes, and the filibuster could still persist, reserved for the unqualified, corrupt and genuinely extreme. Oh, and into the bargain, Donald Trump might well not be president. Of course this is just a suspicion, and counterfactuals don’t really work that easily; you can’t change one thing and hold everything else constant. Moreover even if you could, few liberals would trade the kind of big Supreme Court losses on social issues (and not only on social issues, of course) that I’m imagining for more comity in the nomination process and a slightly lower risk of a demagogue capturing the White House. If your foes score an own goal, you don’t hand the point back to them; you welcome the edge and keep on playing, no matter how much they whine about what could have been or make dangerous plays to win the lost point back. But a liberal can be glad that Bush nominated Souter, glad that he effectively betrayed the party that put him on the court, and still recognize the peculiar impact of that nomination. The gears of history grind, the tectonic plates shift — but individuals and contingencies still matter, and in their desire for a smooth and bipartisan nominating process almost 27 years ago it was Warren Rudman and John Sununu who helped transform it into a ruthless and purely partisan affair.