As the New York Times crossword editor, Will Shortz holds a position of great eminence in the world of puzzles. In that role, he decides who among the many hopeful will see their crossword published in The Times. On Monday, Shortz made a choice he has never made before — he picked a puzzle constructed by a man serving time in prison. The crossword, by Lonnie Burton, had a “007” theme and was filled with clues about the fictional British spy, James Bond. Burton is serving a 46-year sentence in Washington State, and has tried more than 75 times to get a puzzle accepted by The Times. Finally, he made it. In a note explaining the puzzle, Shortz told readers that in his 23 years at The Times he has reviewed many crosswords from prisoners, but has never found one suitable until Burton’s submission. Shortz added, “I’m a strong believer in redemption and the capacity of people to change. No matter what Lonnie has done in the past, which landed him in prison, I admire him for what he’s doing now.” What Shortz chose not to say is that Burton is a sex offender, convicted of the rape of a 15-year-old boy as well as burglary and robbery. Once the puzzle was published, some readers discovered for themselves the seriousness of Burton’s crimes, and they took to the comments section of the crossword. Others wrote my office. Linda Erickson of Gresham, Ore., wrote, “The NY Times has railed against Bill O’Reilly and Roger Ailes, opining that these two people, who were merely accused of sexual harassment, have no place in the media world. It seems very much a double standard to then give a man who was convicted of raping a boy at gunpoint, and is still in prison for that crime, print space,” she said, adding, “I very much doubt that if anyone associated with (or any of their family members) the NY Times was raped, and then that rapist submitted a piece to the NY Times, that the NY Times would ever even considered printing the item.” Here is Ken S. from Staten Island, another critic in the lively comments section on the crossword: I agree that those who commit crimes should be given the opportunity for rehabilitation, if not redemption, but certain crimes cause a gut response in me that shakes the foundations of that belief. As a parent and retired high school teacher/administrator, one of my jobs was to protect the defenseless children in my charge. People who take advantage of the defenseless, whether they be children, seniors or animals, are pariahs in our society. A commenter who goes by Katherine held a more compassionate view: “The goal of imprisonment is not simply punishment but also rehabilitation. Congratulations to Mr. Burton on his efforts in that regard, and best wishes to him in his struggles.” I asked Shortz why he chose not to include Burton’s crimes. “When I first started contemplating running one of his puzzles, I decided I would just say his sentence right up front. But then when I saw what it was, that it was such an unpleasant topic, I decided I wouldn’t,” Shortz said. “Crosswords are entertainment, they’re light entertainment. What he did was horrible. It puts a pall across everything. Leaves an unpleasant taste. People can look it up themselves.” Shortz added that he wasn’t recommending parole, only publishing a puzzle. It’s probably not surprising that the crossword stirred a passionate debate among readers. Child sex offenders are often considered among the most heinous in society, even among prisoners serving alongside them. The question is whether Lonnie Burton, a man seeking redemption after more than two decades of a continuing prison term, deserves a chance to have his puzzle published in The Times. It seems to me that Shortz, as experienced and qualified as any crossword puzzle editor out there, is within his rights to select Burton’s submission to be published in The Times. Burton certainly isn’t the first prisoner to have his work — a crossword, an op-ed — published in a major paper. In fact, Burton himself has had past crosswords accepted elsewhere, including The Los Angeles Times. What I question is the decision not to tell readers what Burton did. An accompanying note by Shortz provided the opportunity for him, in a more personal way, to be upfront with readers; to explain why he felt, even in the face of such crimes, that Burton should get this small piece of satisfaction. I understand Shortz’ reflex to hold back such dark information given the levity of a puzzle, but not doing so may have made matters worse. It left some readers with the feeling of being tricked. As for Burton, he too was vague about the behavior that landed him in prison, but in his own note to readers, he was upfront about what publication in The Times meant to him: “I did some pretty bad things in my youth, but now am dedicated to changing my life, seeking redemption and forgiveness and making amends for my actions.”