OXFORD, MISS. — The toddler had no time for this white man in a fine dark suit. Robert Kennedy may have been a former attorney general and the brother of a slain president, but Annie White’s son was focused on the cornbread crumbs scattered on the floor of his dilapidated home in Cleveland, Miss. Mr. Kennedy was in the Mississippi Delta, 50 years ago this week, for a Senate subcommittee examination of War on Poverty programs. While testifying before the panel, Marian Wright, a 27-year-old NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund lawyer, had sounded an alarm: The Delta was in crisis. The senator decided to see for himself. What he saw on his widely publicized trip shocked a nation used to postwar abundance. Americans would be even more shocked to know that 50 years later, the Delta remains desperately poor. In the three counties Senator Kennedy visited, poverty rates for children younger than 18 still hover around 50 percent. Too many families there face a hard knot of problems: food deserts, failing schools, poor infrastructure, unhealthy populations, shrinking economies, the long shadow of segregation and discrimination. It’s easy to conclude that little has changed since Mr. Kennedy’s trip. But a closer look reveals bright spots. Many of the programs that are working well align with Mr. Kennedy’s core convictions about how to improve the lives of poor people. Mr. Kennedy was convinced, especially after his time in Mississippi, that poverty programs are most successful when they are informed by the voices of poor people themselves. He trusted the families he met there, and later in Appalachia, blighted city neighborhoods in the Northeast and the fields of California, to know what would help them the most. This same spirit animates programs like the Sunflower County Freedom Project, a nonprofit begun in 1998 by Teach for America alumni. The families of the seventh through 12th graders who participate help shape programming and keep students on track. Students tell the stories of their Delta through art, drama, poetry and song. They learn to tend a garden and work for justice in their communities. Graduates are now enrolled in colleges across the country, and in 2016, the students improved their ACT scores over the summer by three points to 20.2, above both the county and state averages. Senator Kennedy’s trip to the Delta has become a touchstone for liberal politicians, but he never said government had all the solutions. Instead, he envisioned businesses and charities working with government to provide jobs and strengthen poor neighborhoods in rural areas. He already had a model: In 1966, he worked with other New York leaders on the Bedford-Stuyvesant Renewal and Rehabilitation Corporation, one of the first of its kind. In the Delta, several agencies are still using that model to good effect. The Delta Health Alliance works in the 18-county region to improve access to health care. With a diverse list of more than 30 public and private partners, it operates medical clinics, visiting-nurse programs, parenting and early childhood education services, and heart-health initiatives. It also helps to improve the region’s health technology infrastructure. Robert Kennedy was a data guy; he wanted to see hard numbers when searching for solutions. He became brusque when officials couldn’t tell him, for example, how many job-training graduates in Greenville, Miss., had actually found jobs. Today, some of the most successful organizations in the Delta also recognize that reliable data is fundamental to success. Leading the charge is the lawyer who challenged Mr. Kennedy and other senators to act: Marian Wright Edelman’s Children’s Defense Fund, partnering with the Southern Rural Black Women’s Initiative and the Center for Research and Policy in the Public Interest, recently produced “Unequal Lives: The State of Black Women and Families in the Rural South,” which mined census numbers to get a more accurate picture of the problems facing these families. The report, which includes several Delta counties, is a boon for researchers and program heads. Data for rural communities is hard to find, but essential for getting aid; now, advocates can use this report to support grant applications and push for better policies. In spite of these bright spots, there are still threatening clouds. For many poor families in the Delta, the federal and state safety net, limited as it is — Social Security, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, free school breakfasts and lunches — provides most of the meals their children eat. And in the three counties that Senator Kennedy visited, one in three people run out of food each month. Mr. Kennedy’s insights from his trip are as relevant today as they were in 1967, and it’s no coincidence that the programs that follow his lead are some of the region’s most successful. The challenge today is how to grow them and how to bring those insights to programs that are not having the impact they could. If he returned to the Delta today, Mr. Kennedy would cheer the advances but be dismayed at how hard advocates must fight to maintain that limited progress. And his heart would break to see there are still so many children in the Delta, and across America, who, like Annie White’s boy, must grasp for every crumb.