Thomas Groome’s op-ed, “To Win Again, Democrats Must Stop Being the Abortion Party,” argued that Hillary Clinton lost the Catholic vote in part because of her stance on abortion, which did not do enough to address moral and religious concerns. “If Democrats want to regain the Catholic vote, they must treat abortion as a moral issue, work for its continued reduction and articulate a more nuanced message than, ‘We support Roe v. Wade,’ ” Groome wrote. More than 2,500 people commented on the op-ed. Groome and Steven Krueger, president of Catholic Democrats, are addressing some of the most popular comments and questions, edited for length and clarity: RBC: Many of these Catholics somehow voted for Barack Obama, many of whom did it twice, and he was pro-choice. Hillary Clinton didn’t lose because of abortion. She lost because her campaign was horrible. Groome: Barack Obama was more nuanced than simply saying, “I strongly support Roe v. Wade.” He talked about it as a moral issue — not just legal — and highlighted his commitment to social services — and put them in place, most effectively through his Affordable Care Act — to help reduce the incidence of abortion. From 2008 to 2014, the rate dropped by 25 percent. All Democratic candidates could take a similar position and then highlight it on the campaign trail. Krueger: Yes, her loss was attributable to other factors as well. However, we estimate that Secretary Clinton received about 1.5 million fewer votes from Catholics than President Obama did in 2012 — a continuation of a long-term trend of Catholics (mostly white) defecting to the GOP since 2009. She used more one-sided rhetoric than he did at the expense of the moral dimension of this issue — as well as proposing to repeal the Hyde Amendment. This cost her with many Catholic voters and in all likelihood did not win one additional vote for her. Ann: Most Catholics I know — including myself — do not pay much attention to the Church’s hard position on abortion (and of course, contraception). Other factors may have played a role in the Catholic vote this time around. Groome: Indeed — true of “most Catholics.” But we’re talking about a small fraction — like 5 percent — in a few swing states where she lost the Catholic vote that could have won her the election. These voters are crucial if Democrats are to retake the Senate in the midterm elections, and two years later the White House. Krueger: It is important to make the distinction between the Church’s moral and “hard” political position on abortion. In a survey of Catholic Democrats supporters (most of whom identify as liberal), over 70 percent thought that the Church’s political position was “too conservative.” Yet 54 percent thought that the Church’s moral position was “about right,” meaning that the two views are not mutually exclusive. This is consistent with the data that shows majorities of people believe that abortion should be legal but is morally wrong. Tom Goslin: So, the Democrats must work to reduce the number of abortions? The Democratic Party IS the party that advocates policies which would radically reduce abortion numbers both in the US and around the world. We know this with certainty. Those policies include sex education, birth control, and family planning. Groome: You are absolutely correct; it is the Democrats, and for sure not the Republicans, who have the social policies to reduce the number of abortions. In the true sense of the term, Democrats are far more “pro-life” than the Republicans. Watch the abortion rate rise now with Trump and his social policies. Sadly, Democratic politicians don’t represent themselves as helping to reduce the number; they’re too afraid of being thought to limit access as well. Krueger: Yes, but unfortunately it seems like the Democratic Party keeps this a secret. I agree with this reader but would add pre- and post-natal support, and programs from the Pregnant Women Support Act (including those that facilitate adoption) that were included in the Affordable Care Act. Democrats should “be not afraid” to speak about abortion in equal measures of legality and morality, the latter being a salient reason many Democrats seek to reduce the incidence of abortion. JustThinkin: These moral issues are serious. But so are moral issues of health care, the environment, immigration, and inequality. But the Republicans have managed to discuss these as pure economic issues. Only women’s reproduction is discussed as a pure moral issue for them. Clearly this is fake. So, support women’s health issues, support sex-ed and birth control awareness, and support women’s rights and men’s responsibility. Support helping little human lives in their homes and schools. Find a positive and life-affirming way to say it, or find a way to side-step it. Groome: It can’t be side-stepped. Better to take your good advice, do the abortion-reducing things you describe and then tell the electorate about it — rather than only saying “we support Roe v Wade.” Krueger: I agree with this reader except for his closing words, “or find a way to side-step it.” Democratic candidates — and the platform — have increasingly sought to avoid speaking about abortion as a moral issue and have emphasized rhetoric focusing on the right to choose. Democrats would be well advised to speak to the American people where they are at and talk about abortion in the broader terms of morality, touting and building on their record of advancing policies to reduce its incidence (and even protecting the life of the unborn), while continuing to support Roe v. Wade. Squeedonc: “For them, her uncompromising defense of Roe was comparable to telling a group of Quakers, ‘I’m in favor of war,’ without even mentioning preconditions.” That’s a ridiculous and offensive false equivalence. As a Quaker I frankly resent it. Unlike Quakers, who have never lobbied for a “law” to forbid all war, many Catholics and Evangelicals are lobbying hard for laws to end all access to abortion, at any stage, under any circumstances. Groome: First, apologies for offending you; I have great esteem for the Quaker tradition and its commitment to peace-making. However, I was not talking — as you imply — about banning abortion but about reducing the need for it. Many European countries have a far lower abortion rate than the United States — because of better social services and programs to encourage adoption. Krueger: I think this reader misconstrues Professor Groome’s point and what it means to be Catholic. Unlike other religious denominations, the centralized, institutional authority of the Catholic Church is often conflated by the general public to represent the views of all Catholics. However, Catholics in the pews cover the spectrum of political thought, as do our bishops. DamnYankee: In many ways it’s a testament to just how bad Democrats are at messaging that the issue of abortion still makes or breaks political elections. Liberal women MUST include women of faith in this culture war (and they exist) willing to frame issues of reproductive freedom for the 21st century. Groome: I agree entirely — Democrats must message better on such issues. Reagan ran on what he called a “pro-life” platform even though when he got into office he cut social services. However, it wasn’t until a Democrat, Bill Clinton, came into office that abortion rates began to fall dramatically. Who really owns the language of pro-choice and pro-life; in reality, its present ownership should be reversed. Krueger: The issue of abortion does not “make or break elections” but it can be a significant contributing factor in determining the outcome of a close election, particularly in battleground states with a significant Catholic vote (e.g., Ohio, Pennsylvania, Michigan and Wisconsin). Regarding “women of faith,” as a man, I believe that it is vitally important to listen carefully to all women on this issue. However, I should add that the United States remains a religious country. As our national per capita GDP has increased, we have not experienced the commensurate decline in religious metrics experienced by other developed nations. Even those who see no place for faith in politics should recognize that faith is still important to most Americans and therefore an important consideration in the political framing of issues. Stephen: The abortion issue is killing the Democratic party, not because the majority of Americans oppose all abortion, but because the Dems are allowing the Republicans to control the issue. Hillary’s response to Trump’s ripping the baby out of the mother comment was weak and ineffective (as was much of her campaign). He won the debate on that single topic. Groome: Trump may have won the election on this very exchange. She should have come back and identified his description as a caricature — which it was. But, the image that many people have, rightly or wrongly, is that Roe v Wade allows unlimited and unconditional abortion. Krueger: I agree, the GOP controls the debate on abortion and does so by perverting the Democrats’ position on it, e.g. “pro-abortion.” Few, if any, people are “pro-abortion.” The majority of Americans believe that abortion should be legal but also that it is morally wrong. By not speaking directly to the moral dimensions of abortion, the Democratic Party undermines itself on this issue as well as the moral high ground they rightfully deserve on a number of other issues.