There they were, gathered around the fire at Tribal Council on Wednesday night’s episode of “Survivor.” One of the contestants, Jeff Varner, in a last-ditch attempt to keep himself from being voted off the show, turned to a man by his side. “Why haven’t you told anyone you are transgender?” he said. Zeke Smith, familiar to viewers of the previous season, went blank. His eyes lost focus, and it seemed, for a moment, as if he were disassociating. The thing that he had wanted to avoid was now about to unfold, on national television. Mayhem ensued. Words like “deception” were thrown around. Repeatedly, Mr. Smith was accused of having misled his fellow tribe members because, yes, he was — or had been — trans. “Survivor” is a reality show, but the issues that Mr. Smith had to deal with — and its potential manipulation by the Jeff Varners of the world — are ones that many people, both trans and not, have had to confront: What private information is ours to keep? What aspects of our history do others have the right to know? Does knowledge of people’s sexual or gender history change the way we look at them? We are judged not only by the public selves we invent but also by the things we keep private. Often the contradiction between the two seems significant. The fact that Newt Gingrich was having an affair the whole time he was busy trying to impeach Bill Clinton for lying about having an affair called into question whether Mr. Gingrich was motivated by his dedication to the moral high ground or — you think? — the opportunity to drag his adversary down. We see this again and again, especially in the long list of anti-gay family-values Republicans who have later come out — sometimes voluntarily, and sometimes as a result of being busted. There have been more documented instances of Republican congressmen being arrested for solicitation in restrooms than transgender people. Perhaps what we need is a law keeping members of the Republican Party out of men’s rooms. We seem to agree that secrets that belie the carefully constructed personae of public scolds or elected officials are worth knowing. (My favorite was when William Bennett lost over $8 million at casinos during the decade he published “The Book of Virtues.”) When the infamous tape of President Donald Trump boasting about “pussy grabbing” came out, though, there didn’t seem to be any lasting consequences, perhaps because no one was surprised. The secret revealed nothing that we didn’t know, or suspect, already. Sad! But a trans identity isn’t a secret. It’s private. There’s a difference. Not revealing one’s private medical history doesn’t mean that someone isn’t who you think they are. Zeke Smith wasn’t hiding his identity. He just didn’t think it was anybody’s business. There are many people like Mr. Smith, who live in what used to be called “stealth.” But since that word implies, à la Mr. Varner, that transgender people are deceptive, it’s not as common today. In writing my most recent novel, about a woman whose family doesn’t know her history, I talked to a woman whose husband did not know his wife was born a different gender. She resented other people moralizing about her choice. “It’s not about who I was, it’s about who I am,” she said. And yet, the ethicist in me believes that there comes a moment when self-disclosure is indeed necessary. For some, this moment comes before sexual intimacy. For others, sexual intimacy is less the point than the emotional kind; I know a woman who has no qualms about sleeping with men who don’t know her history, but the moment she finds herself falling in love, she feels morally obliged to share it. Living in stealth can be a heavy burden, though; it requires replacing one secret for another, having to constantly invent a story to explain one’s past. I know that when I came out as trans, the biggest change was not in going from male to female; it was going from being a person with a secret to a person without one — at least that one, anyway. We should be under no illusions about exactly how deeply transgender people are at risk when they disclose their past. How many of the dozens of trans minority women murdered each year have lost their lives because their assailants were surprised by their identities, who felt their manhood threatened by the desire these women stirred within them? Is it any wonder trans people are sometimes afraid to share their truth? I can tell you that I have seen the expression in people’s eyes change the moment they learn my history, as if suddenly the person they thought they knew had become a stranger. It makes me want to shout, What is it about me that you think has changed? As I once asked my own wife, after I came out to her many years into our marriage, Am I not me? Transgender people should be afforded the same privacy — and safety — as anyone else when it comes to our stories. Our identities are a source of pride, not shame. But they’re for us to own. On “Survivor,” Mr. Varner’s gambit backfired, and in the end, he was the one whose torch was snuffed out. For this night, at any rate, the other survivors decided that outing someone else’s personal history was a far more unforgivable act than anything Mr. Smith had or had not done. But would people in reality behave with the same grace as people on the reality show? Would you?