CHICAGO — Sears recently announced that it had “substantial doubt” about its ability to stay in business. The company has been declining for almost half a century, but that was still a jolt: I grew up in rural Kansas in the 1950s, and Sears was part of my life, as it was for most people in small towns. Although the company had stores all over America, they were in the big cities and towns. We went only once to the Kansas City store, when I was about 6, when a neighbor drove us there to shop for bedding — my parents didn’t learn to drive until some years later. The size of the store terrified me — floor after floor with display shelves twice my height. Although every aisle showed something different, in their symmetry they all looked the same to me. I got lost and thought my parents would be so angry that they wouldn’t bother to look for me. Fortunately my resourceful older brother tracked me down before I spent the rest of my childhood riding the elevators, bleating piteously. The rest of the time, we shopped through the catalog. My mother bought all her appliances from Sears, along with the husky-size jeans my brothers and I needed. Twice a year, Mom carefully filled in the order forms for everything from children’s underwear to Craftsman tools and Kenmore vacuum cleaners, enclosed a check and waited for delivery. When she’d finished shopping, my brothers and I got to use the catalog to make paper dolls or soldiers. Special catalogs had fabric samples that I could use for bedspreads and carpets in my dollhouse. My mother herself, during her Depression childhood, had cut out pictures of grand pianos and diamond tiaras and presented them as her wish list for presents. Our Jewish family stood out like giraffes in our small Kansas town: stared at and commented on but rarely targets of hostility. We were even more rarely targets of reverence, but the local Kenmore repairman belonged to a Protestant sect that believed, with Calvin, that Jews were the first called by God. The repairman thought working for a Jewish family brought him close to holiness, and he would never charge my mother for fixing her Kenmore washer or dryer. When I heard the news that Sears might be closing, that repairman was the first person I thought of. I’m sure, like my mother, he has been dead many years, but he exemplified what Sears meant in small towns across the country. Unlike Amazon and other contemporary retail behemoths, Sears had employees who were part of our communities. Sears was the Amazon of its day. It sold everything: dishes, appliances, clothes, toys, groceries, motorcycles, car parts and even houses that you could construct bit by bit from the catalog. Having moved its headquarters from Minneapolis to Chicago, the company officially opened its 40-acre warehouse in 1906 to hold merchandise for national distribution. Retail stores would come later. When I moved to Chicago in 1968, Sears was the world’s largest retailer. It employed about 350,000 people; its insurance company subsidiary, Allstate, dominated the auto and homeowners market. It had long outgrown its million-square-foot warehouse and had regional distribution centers three or four times that size. In 1970, with antiwar and civil rights protests roiling the country and the economy stagnant, Sears broke ground for a new headquarters building in downtown Chicago. It wanted three million square feet of office space and it wanted a monument to its historic market success — from small Minneapolis watch company in 1886 to retail giant in 1970. I couldn’t afford Sears when I first moved here — everything I bought came from Goodwill. Besides, I’ve never overcome my 6-year-old’s anomie inside giant retail spaces. The fluorescent lights, the mind-numbing Muzak and the miles of aisles disorient me. The store where I used to daydream was Marshall Field — another vanished icon — where I’d try on $2,000 frocks in the 28 Shop and imagine myself at opening night at the opera. By the time the Sears Tower was topped in 1973, the company had already begun to decline. The marketing strategies of the past century didn’t work against muscular young competitors like Walmart. Sears closed stores; it eliminated products; it sold off Allstate, its most profitable subsidiary; but it wasn’t able to stop the bleeding. A friend took a job at Dean Witter, the brokerage house Sears bought in an effort to stanch the flow. I’d visit her at Sears on our lunch breaks, where the smell of stale popcorn made the store seem dreary and old. It was a far cry from the company’s prime, when you could visit the dentist or podiatrist while you were buying a house, a tombstone or a dining room set. The London-based Willis insurance company took over naming rights for the tower when Sears’s rights expired. The building is now officially Willis Tower, but for me and millions of other Chicagoans, it will always be the Sears Tower.