QUITO, Ecuador — The people — hundreds and thousands of them — took to the streets to peacefully demand a recount of the votes. Many Ecuadoreans simply did not believe the announcement of the results of the April 2 election, which gave the victory to the ruling party’s candidate, Lenin Moreno, with 51.15 percent of the vote, and said Guillermo Lasso, the Creo-Suma party candidate, received 48.85 percent. Ecuadoreans need to clear up any doubts about what happened the day of the runoff presidential election. Since then, those doubts have become a dark cloud hanging over President Rafael Correa’s government, especially over the National Electoral Council (known as the C.N.E. for its initials in Spanish), which is tightly controlled by the executive branch. I ran as the vice-presidential candidate on the opposition ticket, campaigning on a platform of change. We wanted to rescue the democratic institutions seriously affected during the decade of Mr. Correa’s presidency. We wanted to construct a government of national consensus, respect differences and put an end to political persecution. A strong believer in democratic principles, I would like to accept the election results, but I cannot, because the will of the people appears to have been violated. I refuse to be an accomplice to fraud. What Ecuador needs is an orderly return to a democracy in which all political actors can participate on equal terms. For this, its citizens must believe in the results of their elections. We are not insisting that we won the election. We are asking for a manual recount of the votes, supervised by both parties, and we will respect the findings. The health of our democracy greatly depends on passing this test, and that’s why the C.N.E. should satisfy our demand. Why do we think the election was fraudulent? Because of what we witnessed on election night. We were on a winning streak — close but steady — when the National Electoral Council’s official website went dark. The votes began to be counted at 5 p.m., when the polls closed. With 21,515 voting sheets transmitted and verified by us, that is, 53.8 percent of the votes, we were ahead. When the National Electoral Council ceased to function, our team continued counting votes one by one, made copies of a great majority of the voting sheets and calculated that with 32,878 voting sheets counted — 82.2 percent of the total — we were still ahead. When the National Electoral Council website came back online, the official candidate was suddenly winning. We knew that with 82.2 percent of the votes counted, it was impossible to reverse the tide, so we decided to analyze each and every vote to try to understand what had happened. In analyzing the data of the election given to us by the C.N.E., we discovered that when the votes from 95.3 percent of the polling stations were added up, we had won, but that in a small number of the polling stations — 4.7 percent — something very strange had taken place. At these, almost 80 percent of the votes were in favor of the official candidate, tipping the election. In all the other polling stations, there was a close but consistent trend in favor of our opposition party. These “unusual” (for lack of a better word) polling stations gave the victory to Mr. Correa’s candidate. We considered the possibility that these polling stations didn’t really exist. Since they were in rural zones, they should have been surrounded by others with similar results. But that did not happen — the stations with overwhelming results for the official candidate were simply an anomaly, a statistical impossibility. Furthermore, we found an additional 4,243 polling stations favoring the official candidate where the voting sheets showed irregularities such as numerical inconsistencies, no signatures or signatures different from those in our copies. We believe this election was rigged. Once again, the National Electoral Council has proved itself loyal to the populist government of President Correa. It has lost credibility in the eyes of many Ecuadoreans. The government has further weakened its credibility by meeting peaceful protest with violence, threats and repression. On Friday, it raided the offices of Cedatos, one of Ecuador’s most respected polling firms, alleging an “attack on the public faith” because it had reported an exit poll indicating that Guillermo Lasso and I had won the election with 53 percent of the vote. In a tweet, President Correa threatened a group that had carried out a quick vote count, Participación Ciudadana, and had announced to the press it couldn’t declare who had won because of a technical tie between the two candidates. Its director received death threats. The windshield of my car was broken, and my bodyguards were injured. Mr. Lasso and I thought we would be arrested at any moment on charges of disturbing the peace. The government party threatened us and said it would bring us to trial on criminal charges for questioning the electoral results. Losing the election was never an option for Mr. Correa’s party. His government has operated for a decade as an absolute power that maintains control over the courts, Congress and the security apparatus. Without checks and balances, the country has suffered from authoritarianism, arbitrariness, persecution and systematic corruption that offers rewards and unlimited power to government officials. So many officials are tangled up in a web of corruption that the possibility of a new government that would investigate them was too great a risk to run. On April 12, Mr. Lasso gave the C.N.E. documents of the many violations that support his claims of electoral fraud. We demand a recount. We have asked our supporters not to resort to violence, to protest in a firm but peaceful way. If Mr. Correa’s government insists on imposing a candidate whose rightful election is in doubt, the new government will not have the legitimacy to govern a divided country. For the good of Ecuador and of democracy, it is necessary to establish the truth about these elections.