When he was discussing military strategy or diplomacy, Gen. Colin Powell, the former secretary of state, liked to invoke what he called the Pottery Barn rule: “If you break it, you own it.” Well, the Republicans broke the Supreme Court confirmation process. Now they own the Supreme Court. What do I mean? After all, didn’t Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, confirmed last Friday by a vote of 54 to 45 and sworn in on Monday, simply replace another Republican-appointed justice, Antonin Scalia? If the Republicans own the court now, wasn’t that true before Justice Scalia died in February of last year? There’s a crucial difference. Justice Scalia reached the Supreme Court in 1986 by the normal route, events following one another in typical fashion. Chief Justice Warren E. Burger announced his retirement. President Ronald Reagan chose a sitting associate justice, William H. Rehnquist, to replace him, simultaneously naming then-Judge Scalia of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to the Rehnquist seat. The Senate Judiciary Committee conducted a confirmation hearing, and the full Senate confirmed Justice Scalia unanimously to the seat he went on to occupy for nearly 30 years. Contrast that route to the one that brought Justice Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. The Senate’s Republican majority engaged in a 10-month blockade of President Barack Obama’s nominee, Chief Judge Merrick Garland of the same appeals court where Justice Scalia served, based on the astonishing argument that despite having been twice elected by wide margins, President Obama wasn’t entitled to fill a Supreme Court vacancy that arose on his watch. Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, has boasted that keeping the seat open — and thus keeping the future of the Supreme Court alive in conservative voters’ minds as a concrete issue because of an actual vacancy — played a decisive role in Donald Trump’s election. “The single biggest issue in bringing the Republicans home in the end was the Supreme Court,” Senator McConnell gloated to The Washington Post in February. In other words, it was raw politics all the way down, without even a fig leaf of a nonpolitical rationale. I’m not naïve. All presidents yearn for a Supreme Court legacy, and many tell fibs about the nominees they choose. President Reagan presented Robert H. Bork as a “moderate.” He wasn’t. President George H. W. Bush described Clarence Thomas as the best-qualified person for the job. He wasn’t. That’s all just part of the game. Of course the Supreme Court nomination and confirmation process is political; how could it be otherwise? But the Republicans rewrote the rules well before their decision last week to abolish the filibuster for Supreme Court confirmation votes. Making an existing Supreme Court vacancy a highly visible part of an electoral strategy stamps the court as an electoral prize, pure and simple. In doing so, it places the court in a position of real institutional peril. It’s a development that couldn’t have come at a worse time for the court, its legitimacy already threatened by a polarization that mirrors the political identity of each justice: The conservatives were all appointed by Republican presidents and the liberals by Democrats. That was not the case until recently. Justices John Paul Stevens and David H. Souter, who retired during the Obama years, were both named to the court by Republican presidents. People could have registered those two justices’ liberal votes on civil rights, criminal procedure and social issues like abortion and religion as mistakes without suspecting that the votes were driven by partisan politics. Going forward, it will be next to impossible for people to look at decisions that may appear on the Republican Party’s agenda — on voting rights, as a prime example — without seeing the Supreme Court as a partisan tool. The Republican-conservative alignment existed while Justice Scalia was alive, but as I’ve explained, the circumstances were very different. It was no surprise that conservative presidents would send conservatives to the Supreme Court; the surprise is that a Republican Senate would actually steal a seat to assure a future Republican president of that opportunity. Since the Senate’s bipartisan rejection of Robert Bork in 1987, a generation of conservatives has come of age fuming about what might have been, about the “loss” of the Supreme Court. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy is a target of that anger because he ended up in the seat intended for Judge Bork, from which he cast crucial votes to preserve the right to abortion and recognize a constitutional right to same-sex marriage. Significantly, people who stew about Justice Kennedy don’t compare him with Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., the justice he succeeded. Appointed by President Richard Nixon, Justice Powell was a staunch supporter of Roe v. Wade who late in life, after retiring, expressed regret for his failure to support gay rights when he had a chance in the 1986 case, Bowers v. Hardwick. No, they compare Justice Kennedy with Judge Bork, the justice who never was, who indisputably would have turned the court in the opposite direction. Now, Democrats won’t be comparing Justice Gorsuch’s votes with those Justice Scalia might have cast. No, their benchmark will be Chief Judge Garland, who never got the chance to explain himself to the Senate but who, we can presume, would have been on the side of staying the course of modern constitutional law. And there’s the danger for Senator McConnell and his cheering section. Going into last November’s election, Republican voters were taking a dim view of the Supreme Court. The Gallup “governance poll” in September showed two-thirds of Republicans disapproving of the court as too liberal. But two-thirds of Democrats and 42 percent of independents approved of the court. The Republicans’ play to the base with the McConnell strategy made political sense. The Supreme Court never really caught fire as an issue with complacent Democrats — until recently, when the party’s enraged base woke up and drove an initially reluctant Senate Democratic leadership into a feckless filibuster against Judge Gorsuch. In the current Supreme Court term, Justice Gorsuch will be eligible to cast votes only in the 13 cases the justices will hear in the two-week argument session that begins on Monday, the final arguments of a fairly quiet term. But issues that lie at the heart of the current political divide are hurtling toward the court. This week, a federal district judge in Texas issued a strong opinion reaffirming an earlier finding that the Texas Legislature deliberately discriminated against minority voters when it enacted the nation’s strictest set of voter ID requirements. The Trump administration had withdrawn the federal government’s support for the plaintiffs in that long-running case, a startling repudiation of the government’s historic protection of the right to vote. That case will soon be at the Supreme Court’s door. So will a challenge to the administration’s revised Muslim travel ban, in a case the full federal appeals court in Richmond, Va., will hear on an expedited basis early next month. There are strong arguments on both sides of that case. Would a Supreme Court decision to uphold the president come across to the public as reasoned judgment, or a rubber stamp? Colin Powell’s Pottery Barn rule is of recent vintage. There’s an older saying that Senator McConnell might keep in mind as well: Caveat emptor. Let the buyer beware.