CHICAGO — “Where is everyone?” It was a late Saturday night in August 2010. I had just moved to Chicago, and the second my girlfriend and I unloaded the U-Haul (yes! clichés are fun), I sat down on a box in our new apartment and Googled “lesbian bar Chicago.” Two hours later, we stood outside the first search result, hesitating. Nervous sweat trickled down my sides in the unrelenting humidity that I didn’t yet recognize as a defining characteristic of Chicago summers. We were about to meet our new community, a whole sea of queers who had never had any dealings with me or my exes! Music thudded from inside the bar. It seemed promising, so we walked in. No one was there. Well, there was a bartender, who smiled at us as we froze in embarrassed horror in the doorway. My girlfriend went to order us drinks. I scurried over to stand at a table and watch music videos by Madonna and Rihanna. She came back with our drinks, and I inhaled mine, eyes wide in a silent scream. Aside from having their basic human and civil rights taken away, nothing makes homos more nervous than an empty dance floor at a gay bar. It goes against the natural order of things, like RuPaul without big hair or Sean Spicer giving a calm and informed news conference. “Do you think it’s always like this?” I whispered. “It can’t be,” my girlfriend murmured. “How could they stay in business?” Most lesbian bars don’t. It’s been almost seven years since that night in Chicago. I’m even more nervous now. I love hanging out with my people, but these days, I hardly ever go to lesbian bars. That’s because they don’t exist anymore. There are queer and lesbian dance nights, sure, but in most cities, “queer” bars cater almost exclusively to gay men. That worries me. We always tell young gaybies that getting out of their rural town and moving to the big city is the answer to finding their queer family. But as queer people become normalized, have these tight-knit families and communities once found in lesbian and gay bars just melted away into a puddle of casual societal acceptance? I think that’s what is going on. Dedicated queer bars, especially spaces for lesbians, female-identified queers and trans and genderqueer people, are vanishing. It makes me feel out of place, like a really gay goose who just wants to flap her wings to some Robyn and Missy Elliott but finds herself in a pub in Wrigleyville on a Cubs game day. Where are the queer hangouts to set my inner homing device to? Lesbian bars are dropping faster than drag queens on a slippery stage. Rubyfruit Jungle in New Orleans. Sisters in Philadelphia. The Lexington in San Francisco. All gone, all the last of their kind. And since lesbian bars tend to absorb all the queers who aren’t gay men, and since more people than ever before are identifying as L.G.B.T.Q.I.A.+, don’t you think it’s kind of weird there are so few bars? This has been happening for a while, but I think we’ve reached a tipping point where few folks blink if you mention you’re gay. That’s because being queer has become so normal now that Ellen DeGeneres can beam nonthreatening gayness into America’s living room every day and no one, not even my card-carrying Tea Partyer relative, says anything except, “Ooh, I love it when Ellen dances.” We’re mostly accepted. But I feel like I’m losing something small but precious. I want my lesbian bars back. I want clear, dedicated spaces where queers hang out, places that sneering teenagers can drive past with their friends and secretly wonder about. Our bars are closing or gone. How do we find community now? (Beyoncé’s pregnant with twins; she’s too busy, gays!) I do think being inclusive is important. I’m glad it’s becoming O.K. to be queer, that millions of straight people are so loving and welcoming and open that they want to come to the pride parade, to dance in the few bars we have left and to watch us mock the ill-dressed on national TV. Gay marriage? Legal. Laverne Cox has an Emmy nomination. Queen Latifah and Janelle Monae are openly queer and, gasp!, they still have careers. “Modern Family” exists. Kristen Stewart and her girlfriend sulk their way across Los Angeles. Kids are coming out as queer and trans earlier and earlier, softening people’s hearts, one at a time. But there is a still need for queers to have a community with spaces of their own. There is value in knowing there’s somewhere you can go to be near others who understand what it’s like to be a ’mo every single day. It’s not all hot, fun June days during Pride Week and drinking vodka shots from a rainbow bottle. If the price of more acceptance is the loss of a few places to drink and dance, I’ll take it. But what we’re losing are places that young, shy, queer kids in new cities can go to, knowing they’ll be surrounded, maybe for the first time, by people like them.