The outpouring of outrage across the country in response to Donald Trump’s election has created a significant opening for flipping Republican-held House seats. This wave of progressive activism has found its way to the campaign coffers of Jon Ossoff, the leading Democrat in the Georgia congressional special election on Tuesday to fill the vacancy created when Tom Price joined Mr. Trump’s cabinet. A combination of Democratic enthusiasm and Republican complacency has created the conditions for change in Georgia and other forthcoming congressional races. In the Kansas special election last week, Republican turnout was down 62 percent from November, while Democratic turnout dipped only 32 percent — conditions that nearly brought an upset for James Thompson, the Democratic candidate. To seize this opportunity, however, Democrats must fight their addiction to consultant-driven paid ads that seek to persuade supposed swing voters and instead invest significant resources in getting core Democratic supporters to the polls. Mr. Ossoff has raised an astounding $8.3 million since announcing his candidacy in January. If he doesn’t emerge with 50 percent of the vote in the crowded primary tomorrow, he will require smarter and more data-driven spending to win the runoff election in June. The conventional wisdom is that the Sixth Congressional District in Georgia, in the suburbs north of Atlanta, is a conservative district and that the only way to win is by running on a relatively conservative platform. That analysis may hold water in high-turnout presidential elections, but in a special election, it fails to appreciate just how many liberal voters there are and how decisive their numbers could be. True, in November 2016, the Democrat received only 38 percent of the vote in that district, but that 38 percent equals about 125,000 people. In a district that has consistently elected Republicans for decades, the fact that 125,000 people still cast their ballots for the Democrat in 2016 is a powerful statement by people who are proud to be Democrats and not pining to be Republican-lite. With turnout expected to be relatively low, Mr. Ossoff is likely to need only 75,000 votes to win. The challenge for Democrats in Georgia and beyond is to inspire their core voters by running on a strong, unapologetic progressive platform and, especially important, to make major investments in the proven practice of deploying paid canvassers to knock on Democratic doors, get commitments to vote and then make sure those supporters get to the polls. Fortunately, there are some signs that Mr. Ossoff is trying to mobilize Democratic voters with  reports saying his campaign has dozens of paid field staff members working with volunteers and captains in every precinct. The threshold question facing all Democratic candidates is what is the rationale for how they spend their money? The overwhelming allocation of the $6 million Mr. Ossoff’s campaign has spent has gone to paid ads — nearly $3 million on media buys and $2 million on online ads. Who is the intended target of these ads? Are those expenditures targeting the 125,000 Democrats to inspire them to turn out again, or are they designed to convince Republican frequent voters that Mr. Ossoff isn’t such a bad guy? In addition to the Democrats who voted in November, there are tens of thousands of African-American, Latino and Asian-American eligible voters in the district, but their participation is usually lower for many reasons. That is a solvable problem for a candidate with many millions of dollars and a résumé that includes an internship with John Lewis, the civil rights legend who represents a nearby district. The cost of turning out an infrequent voter is roughly $30 to $50 per voter. Devoting just $1 million of Mr. Ossoff’s enormous financial haul to such a program would increase minority voter participation by about 25,000 voters, bringing him much closer to the 75,000 vote number he needs. There are also some signs that the Democratic Party is “getting it.” The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has signaled a shift from previous practice by assigning nine staff members to the Georgia special election to help with turnout instead of simply running television commercials, as it has frequently done in past elections. If Democrats want to do well in 2018, they need to start spending money now on programs to increase voter turnout then. Over the past decade, the party whose voters have been least inspired to participate in the midterms has lost control of the House of Representatives. In 2006, Republicans held the majority in the House, but their voter turnout plummeted, with nearly twice as many Republicans staying home as Democrats, allowing enough seats to change parties to make Nancy Pelosi the speaker. In 2010, the tables were turned: Democratic turnout fell sharply by 26 million people, Republican turnout dipped by just 7 million, and Ms. Pelosi had to surrender the gavel. By spending their money more wisely, Democrats can win the Georgia special election and, in 2018, prevail in enough races to recapture control of the House of Representatives.