Berkeley, Calif. — The Bolsheviks were a millenarian sect formed in the expectation of world revolution. Revolution was inseparable from love. It demanded personal sacrifice for the sake of future harmony and required harmony — in love, comradeship and book learning — as a condition for its fulfillment. Most of the revolutionary leaders were young men who identified the revolution with womanhood; many of them were men in love who identified particular women with the revolution. Becoming a Bolshevik meant joining a band of brothers, aided by a few sisters. Living as a Bolshevik meant favoring some brothers over others and loving some sisters as much as the revolution. “The final act of the human tragedy is at hand,” wrote Yakov Sverdlov from exile in Siberia to a young woman named Kira Egon-Besser. “Today only the blind and those who do not want to see fail to notice the growing force that is fated to play the main part in this final act.” Sverdlov and Egon-Besser were part of that force, and that act. “Allow me to kiss you on both cheeks when we meet,” he wrote, “for I have no doubt that I will see you again.” Sverdlov’s last letter to Egon-Besser arrived in Petrograd in late February 1917. He was 32 and married to a fellow revolutionary; she was 18 and prone to thoughts of suicide. He arrived soon after his letter. “One evening in late March,” wrote Egon-Besser in her memoirs, “the doorbell rang. When I heard the sound of his familiar booming bass coming from the entryway, I came running and saw Yakov Mikhailovich. He kissed me on both cheeks.” At about the same time, the economist Valerian Osinsky wrote a letter to his lover, Anna Shaternikova. He was 30 and married to a fellow revolutionary; she was in her mid-20s and, in Osinsky’s view, “young, tall, intelligent and beautiful.” They had met a few months earlier in a hospital in Yalta, where he read Knut Hamsun’s “Victoria” to her. They, too, knew that their happiness depended on the coming of the final act of the human tragedy. They were certain that it was near, but did not know that it had already reached Petrograd. Communism, like Hamsun’s novel, was the kingdom of eternal love. “Over there,” wrote Osinsky, love would “reveal without shame all of its profound tenderness.” Vladimir Mayakovsky met his love in Odessa, in 1914. Her name was Maria Denisova. He was 21 and an avant-garde poet; she was 20 and “absolutely extraordinary: tall, shapely, with magnificent, shining eyes.” She promised to come to his hotel room, but did not. He appealed to God: You, the almighty, came up with a pair of hands, made sure everyone got a head, so why couldn’t you come up with a way for us to kiss and kiss and kiss without this torture? God had nothing to say. The poet promised to “slice him up” as part of a general apocalypse. He said it would come in 1916. It came in 1917. Sverdlov was made the chairman of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee, pioneered the fashion for leather jackets, unleashed the Red Terror, ordered the execution of the czar and his family and died of influenza in 1919, in the midst of the “de-Cossackization” campaign he had unleashed. Osinsky became the first chairman of the Supreme Council of the National Economy and a leading advocate of forced labor in the countryside. Mayakovsky’s Maria married the Red Cavalry commissar, Efim Shchadenko, and fulfilled her graduation requirements at the Higher Art and Technology Studios in Moscow by submitting a marble sculpture of Lenin in his coffin. Mayakovsky wrote the canonical poem on Lenin’s death and immortality. By the time Lenin died in 1924, the arrival of Communism had been postponed indefinitely. Most senior Bolsheviks had moved into the Kremlin or one of Moscow’s “Houses of Soviets” and settled into a life of self-loathing communal domesticity. Osinsky left his wife and son for Anna, and then left Anna to return to his wife and son. Anna married someone else and had a son, Vsemir (or “Worldwide,” for the World Revolution). Several years later, Anna and Osinsky ran into each other at an official reception. She fainted, was taken to a hospital and somehow lost her party card. Osinsky, her original sponsor, was called upon to reconfirm his endorsement. They met again and resumed their relationship. One night, he decided to reread the first five pages of “Victoria,” but could not stop until he finished the book the next morning. “What I find moving about ‘Victoria,’ ” he wrote to Anna, “is not the sense of pity it evokes, but the enormous power of feeling. In its own way, it is comparable to revolutionary enthusiasm.” He was and was not ashamed of his sentimentality. “I don’t know how to cry,” he wrote, “but I get a catch in my throat during the emotional passages — even when I am reading silently to myself.” No one cried more than Osinsky’s friend and former cellmate in a czarist prison, Nikolai Bukharin. “This trait — emotional fragility and acute sensitivity — would often send him into a state of hysteria,” wrote his second wife, Anna Larina. “He wept easily.” Bukharin had known Anna since she was a baby. In the summer of 1930, when he was in Crimea mourning the defeat of his opposition to forced collectivization, Anna came to visit. She was then 16, and he was 40. He, too, read “Victoria” aloud to her: “Love was creation’s source, creation’s ruler; but all love’s ways are strewn with blossoms and blood, blossoms and blood.” When he finished, he asked her if she could ever love a leper. She was about to respond when he stopped her and, still re-enacting “Victoria,” said he feared an answer. Meanwhile, Mayakovsky’s Maria and her new proletarian husband, Shchadenko, had decided to go their separate ways. In December 1929, she wrote to Mayakovsky complaining about “moral murder” at home and thanking him for “defending women from the domestic ‘moods’ of their party husbands.” On April 14, 1930, Mayakovsky shot himself. His suicide note read: “The boat of love has crashed on domesticity.” By 1934, Stalin had staged the revolution’s second coming and Bukharin had apologized for his apostasy. Domesticity was no longer dangerous. Life in the “House of Socialism” was about the confident expectation of the inevitable, the knowing smile of a pregnant woman — the Bolshevik Augustinian Age. Anna Larina moved into Bukharin’s Kremlin apartment. Maria and Efim Shchadenko got back together. Osinsky wrote regularly to Anna Shaternikova about his children, Hegelian dialectics, Soviet industrialization and, always, the coming of Communism. The profound tenderness of love without shame would arrive “just as unexpectedly and just as quickly as when it first came to Russia.” Any day might be the last one. The end came several months later when Stalin decided that the Old Bolsheviks had been deceiving themselves and their faith ever since they had settled down. Bukharin was arrested on Feb. 27, 1937. According to Anna Larina, before being led away, he fell to his knees and asked her to forgive him for ruining her life. Larina was sent to a camp for “family members of traitors to the motherland.” Her interrogator in the secret police was her childhood friend, Andrei Sverdlov (Yakov’s son, born in Siberian exile). Shchadenko presided over the arrests of Red Army commanders. In June 1937, he wrote to Мaria from Kiev about the “cowardly scoundrels” who had “sneaked into high positions, corrupted the guards, filled the apparently watchful sentries with the poison of doubt, and hatched an unimaginably villainous plot.” He closed by saying: “I embrace and kiss you very tenderly, my darling little sun. Soon, no later than early July, I’ll be in Moscow.” Maria had recently received a diagnosis of schizophrenia. According to her next-door neighbor, who was a boy at the time, she was a “tall, stout woman with a piercing, menacing glare” who used to wear “a long black dress girded by a soldier’s leather belt, with a kitchen knife stuck into it.” In February 1937, Osinsky wrote his last letter to Anna Shaternikova. The question of “when,” he wrote, had been replaced by the question of “whose fault is it?” “Against this background, every conversation becomes a legal battle,” he went on. “The only thing left is to stop talking altogether.” He was arrested in October and shot a year later.