SYDNEY, Australia — The fight among Christians over the status and role of women is usually buried out of view. Anger at continuing inequality is not deemed pious or pretty by the faithful. Disputes usually stay private. But this pattern was broken recently by a very public uproar when a prominent theological college announced its award of a prestigious prize to a high-profile preacher who does not believe that women or L.G.B.T. people should be ordained. On most grounds, Princeton Theological Seminary’s decision to give the Kuyper Prize for Excellence in Reformed Theology and Public Witness to the Rev. Tim Keller would seem a safe one. Dr. Keller is the founding pastor of the flourishing Redeemer Presbyterian Church in New York, a gifted preacher and a best-selling author of theological works. I attended his church for some years when I lived in New York, largely because of the high caliber of his sermons. What Princeton failed to consider, though, is that Dr. Keller is also a complementarian. The word is not greatly used outside church circles, but it refers to those who believe the Bible set forth that men should lead and have authority over women, and that married women must submit to their husbands. Among more conservative Protestant denominations, the interpretations of this doctrine of “male headship” vary widely, but it is applied in both the home and the church, where women are not ordained. And many women vehemently object to it. The Princeton Seminary is part of the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), which has allowed for women to be ordained as far back as 1956 (two decades before the Episcopal Church did). Dr. Keller is part of the smaller, but growing, Presbyterian Church in America, which split from the mainline group in 1973, partly over the issue of women’s leadership. Upon hearing of the Kuyper award, Traci Smith, a former Princeton seminarian who is now a minister, wrote: “An institution designed to train men and women for ministry shouldn’t be awarding fancy prizes to someone who believes half the student body (or is it more than half?) has no business leading churches. It’s offensive and, as I have taught my 4- and 5-year-olds to express, it hurts my feelings.” The question confronting seminarians then became: Are a pastor’s views on women core to his faith, reputation and integrity, or merely tangential? The feminist writer Carol Howard Merritt, a pastor in the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), called Dr. Keller’s theology “toxic,” arguing that the issue was “much, much deeper” than whether women can become church leaders. “Complementarianism,” she wrote, “means married women have no choice over their lives at all.” At the extreme, she argued, the doctrine validates male control to the point of abuse. Ms. Merritt said she is often asked about whether there is a “relationship between domestic violence and the Christian teaching that wives must submit,” and cited examples. If a husband wants his wife to lose weight, she must go on a diet. If he wants to have sex, she must acquiesce. If he wants her to home-school their children, she should obey. “None of this is considered abuse,” she said. “It’s considered the husband’s God-given authority. And if a woman questions that authority, the full force of the church community, their social connections and their Christian doctrine backs him up. I can tell you that growing up in this environment as a little girl was very abusive for me.” To be sure, this harsh model of headship is not the one that Dr. Keller teaches. There is no suggestion that he would condone abuse. Rather, he calls headship a “tiebreaking authority.” This does not mean “that the man simply can make all the decisions,” he said, “nor does it mean that he gets his way whenever there is a difference of opinion.” Indeed, he argues, “A head sacrifices his wants and needs to please and build up his partner.” Unfortunately, the nuance in this account of self-sacrificing male authority does not always translate into routine complementarian teaching, in which men are told they’re heads and women are told to submit. Public debate about this asymmetry of power between men and women has been muted for decades, partly because many second-wave feminists abandoned the church from the 1970s onward. In the latter half of the 19th century, the first wave of feminists — women like Elizabeth Cady Stanton — tried to rewrite the Bible and challenge the idea of God-ordained male control. A century later, the women’s movement saw the church as hostile opposition. This has left feminists who remained in the church in an invidious position. While women are regarded as equals in many mainline Protestant churches, for women in the conservative denominations that still adhere to male leadership, the fight has been difficult and protracted. According to the Pew Research Center, in 2012, only 11 percent of American congregations were led by women, a number unchanged since 1998. The battle over the Kuyper Prize may prove to be a landmark. As pressure on the Princeton faculty grew, a seminarian named Zachary Calvo organized a petition protesting the awarding of the prize to Dr. Keller on the grounds of what he described as “exclusionary and prohibitive stances on the ordination of women and L.G.B.T.Q. persons.” About 300 members of the seminary signed, including several faculty members. A few days later, the Princeton Seminary rescinded the award. But it confirmed an invitation to Dr. Keller to lecture — which he accepted. Of course, it is right that Dr. Keller was invited to speak. He is a charismatic figure with a global following, which will continue despite his recent, unrelated decision to step down as senior pastor at the Redeemer. But the debate on women’s roles, in church and at home, must be aired, and damaging theology challenged. The problem with teaching based on archaic notions of a gender hierarchy goes far beyond any one congregation. As I can attest, this is true in Australia, too. When Dr. Keller spoke at Princeton, he was mobbed by fans. But when women emerged to criticize him online, they were trolled on the internet. What impact does all this have? How many women’s horizons are narrowed? How many girls’ voices are stifled? As a Virginia-based writer, Jennifer C. Martin, wrote recently for the feminist website Jezebel, in many congregations across America, “young girls and women are told that if they meet a man they want to marry, they will have to submit their hopes, dreams, and opinions to him or risk being an outcast in their families and churches. “That’s normal to them. It’s far more normal than you can imagine.”