You know there is a lot of fear in corporate America when it actually penetrates the hard exoskeleton of Rupert Murdoch. Mr. Murdoch’s Fox News announced Wednesday that it will part with its star host Bill O’Reilly weeks after a New York Times investigation into sexual harassment charges led more than 50 companies, under pressure from protesters, to pull their ads from “The O’Reilly Factor.” This wasn’t the only recent boycott. Last month, North Carolina passed a face-saving reversal of its bill that prevented transgendered people from using the bathroom of their choice after a host of companies and organizations, including the N.C.A.A., said they wouldn’t do business in the state. A campaign by the group Sleeping Giants has shamed hundreds of marketers into pulling their ads from the right-wing Breitbart News. A threatened boycott has extracted a promise from United Airlines that it will no longer violently remove passengers in favor of a company employee. If you’ve flown United recently, you’ll know that’s progress. What’s driving these about-faces? There’s little evidence that broad-based boycotts actually hurt a company’s bottom line; in fact, loyal customers often increase their patronage. Mr. O’Reilly’s ratings rose after the Times investigation. After the Cracker Barrel chain fired gay employees in 1991, visits to the restaurants rose in the face of protests. In 1977, when a Georgia group threatened a boycott of the Girl Scouts of America for its endorsement of the Equal Rights Amendment, cookie sales went through the roof. But boycotts can cause a significant drop in share price, according to a 2007 study of boycotts over a 28-year period. In other words, shareholders react to their own fear of what might happen to the company’s brand, and not to what’s actually happening to its revenue. The economist A. O. Hirschman might describe this as a triumph of voice over exit. Protesters (voice) cause a shift in corporate behavior, even if consumers don’t exercise their option to stop buying the product (exit). None of the companies that pulled out of “The O’Reilly Factor” or Breitbart News are exactly a profile in courage. The basic allegations against Mr. O’Reilly have been known since 2004, when he settled his first lawsuit, but that didn’t stop companies from advertising until more women came forward. Though in some cases, corporate cowardice is a good thing. American business is often accused of producing a bland, monolithic culture — “Disneyfication” — but sometimes the fear to offend instills a kind of civility that other spheres of public life lack. Just compare the inclusive if dull message you hear from corporations with the state of our political culture, where the vilifying of enemies (the elite, welfare queens, the deplorables) is still a critical tool. Donald Trump won an election despite the creepy predatory comments he made on the “Access Hollywood” tape. But Mr. O’Reilly is being shown the door for acting toward women exactly as Mr. Trump had suggested (“When you’re a star, they let you do it. You can do anything.”). Not that he needed the encouragement, apparently. Steve King, a five-time congressman from Iowa, has plagued the public arena for years with his barely concealed white nationalism. By contrast, when Donald Sterling, the longtime owner of the Los Angeles Clippers, was heard on tape disparaging African-Americans, the N.B.A. revoked his right to ownership and put the team up for auction. The N.B.A. did this even though Mr. Sterling was speaking in private about associates of his ex-girlfriend, who secretly taped him as part of an extortion plot. In the 1980s and ’90s, companies were more likely to fold under pressure from conservative groups policing the airwaves. “We are in business to make friends,” said a Coca-Cola spokesman after the company pulled ads from the Fox show “Married … With Children.” Today, companies have been pushed in a much more progressive direction, largely because they build their brand on consistent messages not just on television, but also on YouTube and social media. The sheer ubiquity of corporate branding (“Just Do It,” “I’m Lovin’ It”) turns consumers into what business scholars call “secondary stakeholders,” people with no financial stake in a company who nevertheless have an interest in the brand. That makes voice a more potent tool. Kellogg’s and Charles Schwab don’t want their ads to appear on a site featuring headlines like “Birth Control Makes Women Crazy and Unattractive” or “Only Gullible Fools Believe the Great Barrier Reef Is Dying” unless they want to destroy their corporate reputations. Likewise, Mercedes-Benz is a niche brand in the United States, but the company spends millions so that every consumer associates its vehicles with Jon Hamm uttering the phrase “The best or nothing,” and not with Bill O’Reilly’s voice telling a would-be conquest that she’s a “wild girl.” (Disclosure: Mr. O’Reilly once called me out on air, saying that I lied about his ratings, and that I didn’t “care about the truth.” In retrospect, I’m one of the lucky ones.) Boycotts don’t always work, and it wasn’t certain that Mr. Murdoch would agree to kick Mr. O’Reilly to the curb. Don’t forget that he rehired Rebekah Brooks, the disgraced editor of The News of the World, after the phone hacking scandal passed. But on Tuesday yet another woman came forward with allegations against Mr. O’Reilly, and there was the gnawing fear that there were even more to come. More important, 21st Century Fox’s stock has slipped almost 6 percent since the Times investigation was published. That decline would make a coward of almost any chief executive. Mr. O’Reilly’s lawyer is laying the blame for his client’s situation on a “smear campaign” that is “being orchestrated by far-left organizations.” That sounds like the kind of all-out political assault that Fox News and Mr. O’Reilly himself excelled at for years. But it wasn’t politics that did in Mr. O’Reilly. It was just business.