Bill O’Reilly’s firing is a welcome step by Fox News and its parent company, 21st Century Fox, by a new generation of leadership trying to modernize the country’s conservative media flagship and change its culture. But it is just a step. What is needed now is a rallying rejection of sexist behavior toward women from conservative media personalities and outlets. As conservatives, we need to acknowledge that behavior that takes sexual advantage of women is inconsistent with a movement that heralds family values and moral righteousness. One of the core pillars of the modern American conservative movement is its emphasis on personal responsibility. Conservatives believe that a self-governing society depends on individuals taking responsibility for their actions, and those of their family and community. They deride others, especially American liberals, who fall short of this standard, who blame anything other than themselves for personal transgressions or failures. For conservatives, every policy solution starts with an individual picking oneself up, acknowledging his or her mistakes, as a first step to improving his or her circumstances. We saw no acknowledgment of mistakes publicly or privately from Mr. O’Reilly nor from Roger Ailes, the former Fox News chairman. Instead Mr. O’Reilly blamed others, embracing the victimization he so ridiculed of the American left. He claimed his departure was no fault of his own, but the cost of doing business as a high profile media personality. This is an outlandish claim. William F. Buckley, Tom Brokaw and Anderson Cooper are high-profile media personalities, and yet, they have never been dogged with repeated sexual harassment entanglements. Likewise, Mr. Ailes, also unrelenting, has never taken responsibility for the rotten culture he created and sustained. It would be refreshing if the conservative media universe would resoundingly reject Mr. O’Reilly’s and Mr. Ailes’s behavior as reprehensible and “unconservative.” So far, we’ve heard either silence, a brief reporting of the facts, such as “Fox Breaks Ties With Host Bill O’Reilly” in National Review, or reinforcement of victimization as in Breitbart’s “Activist Left Gets Monster Scalp.” Today’s conservatives must dissociate themselves from a “Mad Men” culture of the past. They should flatly condemn this disrespectful behavior toward women. Otherwise they, too, are complicit.