I was 2 years old in 1967, too young to remember much about the war. So recently I sat down to interview my 86-year-old mother. Here’s her story. It’s written in a prose-poem style to reflect how my mother thinks in Vietnamese.  1967 Our family ăn Tết to,welcomed grandly,the Year of the Goatso the younger childrencould believe our lives in Sài Gònremained unfracturedeven though their father was capturedby the Communiststhe previous spring. I hired an expert to wrap in banana leavestwenty square-shaped bánh chungs.We stayed awake night before the eveboiling the Tết cakes in a steel water drum.All arms stiffened from stirring a potthick with sugary mung beans,stirred and stirred then poured chè khoonto a tray wide as a mat. Morning of Tết each childreceived crisp money in red envelopes.The oldest daughter just out of high schoolreceived a floral-patterned áo dàito wear to her first job as a translator. Her father gone, she must workas I was weaning the last child.The six boys each ownedtwo new white school button downsand a pair of blue school pants.The two youngest girls worematching pink dresses from a French boutique. Advertisement How they laughed and ate,same as when their father was home. I told the six youngest,ages 12, 10, 8, 6, 4 and 2,father was training againwith the United States Navy.They were to studyand make him proud. I believed without blinkingtheir father would be returned.The Communists were fighting to unite the country.Why would they harm a fellow northernerwho never shot a gun,who enlisted in the south’s navyto earn an officer’s salary for his family? Like most young men in the northhe first joined the nationaliststo expel the French from Vietnam.But soon he understood he would likely diein the jungle, by a lake, in a warwhere nationalists flipped into Communistsand claimed his ancestral land for their cause.He went from Hà Nội to Sài Gòn when the country divided in 1954,and I joined him as a mother of three. These oldest, 14, 16 and 18,knew of their father’s capturebut were to keep smilingand help care for those youngeruntil father returned, orđến khi Cậu về,a hope repeated as oftenas I drew breaths. Never was the term mất tích,missing in action,mentioned in the house. By spring,the last child weaned from my milk,I found work, a thought once remoteas touching the moon. I understood our gold savings,soft and orange as fresh yolks,must remain coiled in cloth pouches,hidden within walls, inside armoire crevices. Gold protected usin case of starvation,in case one child stopped a bullet,in case neither parent survived,not for ushering one day to the next. Back then no one trusted cashor bank papers with numbersin amounts larger than pocket money. The Navy payroll office hired meas tribute to their fatherbut first I must weigh enough to work.Other mothers advised eat liver and beef,then devour a bowl of phở deep as a hatthe morning I was to step on the scale.With broth sloshing in my bellyI achieved 42 kilos.Not ideal, but enough. Advertisement I had not realized my weight loss,same as I had not noticedAmericans thickening downtownwith cars, advisers, soldiers. With American presenceI clawed into the convictionthat war will soon end,sending their father home. A man imprisoned with him visited,saying if the man himself was releasedeven as sát Cộng (kill Communists)sat tattooed on his chest,then why not their father? Back then I believed withone hundred percent certaintytheir father would come home. 1968-1972 Tết 1968 before dawnCommunists bombs, not firecrackers,exploded just outside of the city,shocking all the southand its American supporters. The war then demanded more soldiers,deemed ready at 17,deferred if in college. I vowed to relinquish not one son,having already given war a husband. The only path from holding gunswas to study,the only times outside our housewere to school or market. With growing boys, reaching home took snaky routes.I listened to their stories with fearand, despite myself, laughter.Inside a war they were children first. With the first son safe in engineering school,the second son in high school walked instead of bikedso he could whisper “Je t’aime”to girls floating in white áo dàiswho also meandered home throughthe Sài Gòn Zoological-Botanical Garden.Soldiers stopped this tall lanky boy three or four times daily,demanding identification to prove his age of 14.His path from war later weaved through law school. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The third son, also in high school, and his friendswould throw a rope to a gorilla,who’d tug against a long line of students.“One, two, three,” they’d yell and let go.The gorilla tumbled back,enveloped in his opponents’ jeers,everyday the same uneven gameas the gorilla had no other friends.There were gibbons and bononos and chimps,also elephants that stretched out trunks for sugar caneand too many birds to count,but the gorilla preferred the company of students. Advertisement This son, always ranked first in his class,would test into medical school.The fourth son had tested into a design school,safe for a while. The fifth son though ranked 42 out of 43in the crucial fifth grade.His older brothers were assigned as tutors,disciplining him to score highto enter Võ Trường Toản, like them. This fifth son, though, obsessed morefor crickets, roosters, ducks and fishthan math or writing.Concentrate, I squeezed his shoulders,you must studyto steer from bullets. He pleaded:I’ve found from a breederthe exact perfect fighting fish,unusually dark blue and green.Raising him in white clay to build up scales,I now have a martial artiststriking not once but in a series.I’m breeding him nowas he catches every egg in his mouthand brings it to the floating nursery bubble.I’m sorting mosquito larvae,feeding only young white tender onesto the waiting parents, separated in jars.I’m also trapping flies and minnowsfor our band of ducks. In his beseeching bulging eyespure joy. I countered:Your amusements can remainas long you rank first in class.End of school year he indeed ranked first,placed into an elite public schoolhis older brothers attendedand was invited to a ceremony at the Presidential Palaceto receive a bicycle. The children grew as if blown by the wind,muscles and brains pliant from protein and ricein the years when Americansspent their dollars downtown,trickling support to mothers. 1973-1975 Then the Americans went homeand took our economy with them. While they were in the warI could support the children,who in turn tested into public schools. During days I worked at payroll,during evenings I designed French-inspired baby clothes,on weekends I delivered bag after bag to marketswhere merchants dealt in dollars.By Tết 1974 mothers could barely buy ricemuch less bloomers to fluff toddler dresses. Advertisement By Tết 1975 mothers stood blinking at the marketsas gasoline doubled overnight, then again, then again,same as prices for rice, pork, sugar, eggs. No one in our family received new clothes,wearing ankle-length pants even with released hems,wearing white shirts where cuffs slid toward elbows,wearing dresses short as shorts. Firecrackers were no longer allowed.Red lì xì envelopes contained barely enoughfor a snack.I bought two bánh chungs,for what was Tết without its cake? Still, the youngest children laughed,eating more candied coconutthan expensive lotus seeds,vying to win the dice game of bầu cua,racing to see who could click open the mostred-dyed watermelon seeds with teeth and one hand. Their lips rosy as if wearing lipstick. Then another fellow prisoner visitedreporting the captors cooked rice soupto aid their father’s poor digestionbut received orders to send him to Cambodia. My heart pumped too fast,I calmed with chants, with versestheir father and Ihave long recited from The Tale of Kiều,who survived a much worse fateof being sold when her family’s fortune fell.“Đã mang lấy nghiệp vào thân,cũng đừng trách lẫn trời gần trời xa.Thiện-căn ở tại lòng ta,chữ tâm kia mới bằng ba chữ tài.” By April 1975the end gushed toward usas the Communists controlled citiescloser and closer to Sài Gòn. Everyone whispered three, four escape plots,by plane or ship or boat or land.I decided our family too must leavebecause the new regime would stopthe education of those whose fathersfought on the losing side. Advertisement I reasoned their father will join usonce he learned of our livesthrough his ancestral home in the north,through my own village a walk away. I reasoned with too much hope. He never was returned to us.I sat the children before meas we prepared to leaveand explained slowly.You are well prepared,wherever we live you will advance your studiesin English or French or any language necessary.As your minds adapt, so will your organs, tongues and skin. We packed, each a bag half the size of a pillow case.Our pure gold by now eaten to one leaf,hammered flat and long and thin and sewninside the hem of a blouse worn as I turned from home. Two nights before the war endedour family cuddled inside a Navy shipslipping in the dark toward international waters,a vapor line upon crossingwe becamerefugees. Thanhhà Lại is the author of “Inside Out & Back Again” and “Listen, Slowly.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 