IN THE days following Donald Trump’s White House victory, The New York Times’s executive editor and its publisher signed an unusual joint letter to readers, promising in the wake of a startling election to report “without fear or favor, striving always to understand and reflect all political perspectives and life experiences in the stories that we bring to you.” An admirable goal, considering the hermetic bubble that The Times and other news media are often accused of living in, one that blocked the sightline to a swelling despair in Middle America. Now, as the 100-day mark of the Trump administration approaches, it’s time to ask: Is The Times following through on its promise to put an outstretched hand toward Red America? And, just as crucially, are readers ready for it? Without much effort you can spot signs that it’s trying. There’s a new roundup of opinions from the left and the right. A podcast, The Daily, often features voices from the heartland. There are affecting narratives like one from writer Jack Healy on an Ohio farmer who lost two children to heroin. These stories put a beating heart in the people who voted for Trump. They also force many readers to consider views different from their own. At this particular moment in history, that doesn’t always go down easy. A day of reckoning along that path came earlier this month, when editorial page editor James Bennet did his part to broaden reader horizons by naming conservative Bret Stephens to the prestigious — and mostly liberal — roster of Times columnists. Stephens’s coronation produced a fiery revolt among readers and left-leaning critics. They rummaged through his columns for proof that he is a climate change denier, a bigot or maybe a misogynist. More complaints came into the public editor’s office than at any time since the election, with many readers threatening to cancel their subscriptions. (I’m told relatively few actually have.) Inside the building, some of Stephens’s future colleagues posted his “greatest hits” on a bulletin board. And a handful of newsroom staffers, most notably columnist Max Fisher and Cairo bureau chief Declan Walsh, have challenged Stephens on Twitter. It’s hard to tease apart objections to Stephens’s work from objections to hiring any conservative at all, especially since every right-leaning Times columnist from William Safire to Bill Kristol hit a buzz saw walking in the door. After reading many of his past columns I, too, am wary about some of his more inflammatory language on climate change, Muslims, even campus rape. Are we to consider his more intemperate phrases “rhetorical flourishes,” or does he really mean them? I also can’t help but notice that, with his hiring, yet another white male joins the Opinion pages. That’s not exactly a diversity of views. What I do support — fully — is Bennet’s aim of hiring people who don’t conform to a liberal orthodoxy of thought. And I hope he is right in his unflinching belief that readers will want to hear what Stephens has to say. “The crux of the question is whether his work belongs inside our boundaries for intelligent debate, and I have no doubt that it does,” Bennet told me. “I have no doubt he crosses our bar for intellectual honesty and fairness.” The Stephens episode touches the third rail of a debate surfacing as The Times looks to include a wider range of views, not just on the Opinion pages but in its news columns. It raises the question of whether readers want rules around who should be heard and how. And it raises the even larger issue of whether The Times should be a paper for all of America or whether it’s already been claimed by one side.  Another flash point in this debate came after a recent episode of The Daily, the highly popular podcast anchored by Michael Barbaro, a former Times political writer. The subject of the podcast was climate change and the guest was Mark Gray, who spent 38 years of his life working in the coal mines of southern Kentucky. Gray has black lung, and you can hear him struggling to breathe as he defends the Appalachian coal industry against what he sees as efforts by environmentalists to shut it down. As the conversation continues, Gray asks Barbaro whether he has ever stepped foot in a coal plant. Thinking about that question, Barbaro chokes with emotion, and listeners hear several seconds of silence before the host speaks again. It was a powerful 12 minutes of audio, sentimental and empathetic toward a Trump voter to a degree one might not expect from The Times. Too sentimental for some listeners, who took after Barbaro on social media, on blogs and in my inbox. Here’s one complaint from Drew Magratten of New York City: “Barbaro lets a coal miner spout assertions about the economics of the industry and regulations unchallenged. I can almost hear the NYT’s East Coast liberal guilt guiding the kid-glove treatment of a white, blue collar man who proudly voted for Trump.” Barbaro, and the listeners who defended him, noted that an earlier segment of the show included a blunt critique of the potential effects of Trump’s new executive order. Having a coal miner on was a way to show the impact of a declining industry on real lives. “I wasn’t going to poke and prod and beat the science into him,” he said. Nor is Barbaro going to back off. With the help of reporters in Times bureaus nationwide, he has put a mic on ordinary people who probably never imagined even hearing from The Times. Dean Baquet, the executive editor, said he remembered another backlash after a sympathetic piece on Trump aide Kellyanne Conway asked whether she was getting the same sexist treatment that Hillary Clinton did. She was, it concluded — apparently not the answer many readers were looking for. “There’s no question a lot of our readers do not want us to provide stories that show we’re open,” Baquet said. “But what they want is not journalistic.” Lynn Nottage, the Pulitzer-winning playwright, is a breakthrough talent when it comes to crossing into red-state territory and bringing back its humanity, as she demonstrated in her new Broadway drama, “Sweat.” So I sought her out to see whether she had any advice on listening to what you may not want to hear. “I like to replace judgment with curiosity,” she said. “You tell me your story. I’m going to listen without interruption, and then decide what I think.” As it is now, much of working-class America feels it gets more contempt than concern. “So much focus is on the two coasts that their voices aren’t as relevant,” Nottage said. “That’s why the election played out the way it did. Maybe they didn’t always make good choices, but they were heard.”