When Gen. Maxwell Taylor returned from South Vietnam in 1961, he proposed a seemingly simple way to stem the rising Communist insurgency: an impenetrable barrier that would cut off the supply of people and arms coming from the North. Taylor at the time was also advising President John F. Kennedy to send more conventional troops to Vietnam, a recommendation that would haunt America for decades. A barrier, Taylor reasoned, would weaken the People’s Liberation Front, known to its enemies as the Vietcong, helping United States and South Vietnamese forces defeat the Communists. The story of America’s conventional involvement in Vietnam — and its failure — is well known. But the origins of America’s failed attempt to build a virtual wall across Vietnam have been largely forgotten. The Vietnam barrier started with the misguided Taylor, whom the reporter Thomas E. Ricks called perhaps the “most destructive general in American history.” Taylor instructed the famed counterinsurgency expert Edward Lansdale to “put all the American genius to work and have an electronic line or something across the boundary and then down Laos and Cambodia.” Lansdale had little interest in the barrier, so he handed the task to the Advanced Research Projects Agency, a little-known Pentagon division of scientists and engineers established in 1958 to help the United States win the space race against the Soviet Union. ARPA (it has since added “Defense” to its name and is known as Darpa) dutifully assembled some of its best and brightest to study the problem. What they found is that if you really want to stop people determined to cross a border from doing so, you need to get ruthless. Advertisement Secret ARPA reports from the time detailed what “American genius” thought it would take to seal a proposed 2,000-mile stretch — roughly the same length as the United States-Mexican border, though, in the case of Vietnam, broken up into five distinct areas. In addition to deploying a fleet of fixed-wing aircraft and patrol boats, the “border sealing” project proposed using herbicides to deforest a crucial 180-mile stretch of the Ho Chi Minh Trail, a route used by North Vietnam to resupply the Vietcong; mining the 17th parallel, the line between North and South; and using exotic chemical markers to track boats on the country’s waterways. The project also called for developing “novel” technologies. Stapled to ARPA’s 1964 proposal was a handwritten wish list that included two million mines disguised as rocks, 20,000 bomblets loaded with chemical defoliants and an unidentified amount of “insect attractants.” Perhaps most disturbing was a request for 25,000 unspecified “biological weapons systems.” Experts in the Pentagon balked at the ARPA proposal. In reviewing the plan, Seymour Deitchman, a special assistant for counterinsurgency, noted that the costs of the fixed-wing aircraft and helicopters required to make the barrier work would be astronomical. Any sort of barrier, whether physical or electronic, would require continued, expensive upkeep. “Unattended border surveillance devices would still require considerable effort for maintenance and replacement of defunct units, in addition to a massive command and control system to identify points of intrusion,” Deitchman wrote. ARPA’s barrier proposal was rejected by the Pentagon as too expensive and requiring an American military commitment to Vietnam that the White House wasn’t yet ready to make. Yet as happens with many bad ideas, the proposal was recycled just a few years later as the conventional war in Vietnam escalated. The barrier, a former ARPA official wrote, was resurrected out of “desperation” by Defense Secretary Robert McNamara. This time, the task was given to an ARPA-funded group of scientists called the Jasons that the Pentagon Papers described as “the cream of the scholarly community in technical fields.” This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Rather than an actual wall or fence, the Jasons advised developing something akin to a virtual barrier made up of acoustic and seismic sensors linked to a command-and-control computer center that would cue military aircraft to strike. Sensors would pick up people or vehicles crossing this invisible line; algorithms would calculate their position; and then those coordinates would be sent to pilots who would bomb the estimated location. By 1967, the Air Force was dropping strings of acoustic sensors along the Ho Chi Minh Trail. Those sensors would detect passing convoys and relay the data to a pair of IBM mainframe computers in Thailand, which would in turn direct helicopter gunships and aircraft to the predicted coordinates. Rather than dropping bombs on something they had seen, pilots were for the first time attacking based on computer-derived targets, ushering in the era of push-button warfare. Conducted largely in secret, the project, code-named Igloo White, suffered from myriad technical problems, such as the sensors’ short battery life. When word of the project started to leak, McNamara was forced to make a public announcement, though he provided few details about the barrier. “I do not intend to give the enemy the advantage of knowing what materials we will use, where they might be used or in what quantities,” McNamara said at a news conference in September 1967. Historians, veterans and journalists recall 1967 in Vietnam, a year that changed the war and changed America. The Air Force claimed great successes, citing large numbers of convoys bombed, but verifying those numbers proved difficult, since in this new era of digital warfare, only the Pentagon had full access to the battlefield. In fact, the barrier appeared to have little effect on the Vietcong. Defenders of the underlying technology blamed the Air Force for using the sensor technology to pursue its doomed strategic bombing campaign against North Vietnam, diverting resources from the intended barrier. Whatever the case, one conclusion is clear: Despite optimistic reports from the Air Force, the barrier’s failure was so resounding it was eventually mocked as the “McNamara Line.” Advertisement This failure wasn’t forgotten so much as ignored when elements of the electronic barrier were brought back decades later. Starting in 2006, the United States government tried a combination of cameras, sensors and aircraft to stop illegal crossings along the American border with Mexico. Some of the technologies, such as the sensors and tethered blimps, were direct descendants of ARPA’s Vietnam-era work. The multibillion-dollar program was canceled less than five years later amid escalating costs and evidence that the technology wasn’t going to be effective at stopping border incursions. Now President Trump is proposing his own plan for a barrier. Yet his “great, great wall,” a staple of his campaign and now his presidency, has never been articulated beyond its literal expression of bricks and mortar. On Feb. 24, the administration  issued a vague request for proposals for the “design and build of several prototype wall structures in the vicinity of the United States border with Mexico.” Even putting aside the cost and technical difficulty of building a structure across nearly 2,000 miles, a wall will be of little use without a way of monitoring it for incursions. Recognizing this, Rudolph W. Giuliani, part of Trump’s inner circle, has described it as “technological as well as physical,” but that’s as far as anyone has gone to define it. The president’s proposed wall is neither the first nor last attempt at creating an impenetrable barrier. At least the McNamara Line drew on America’s scientific elite. The only thing unique about this latest proposal is that it lacks even the veneer of technological novelty, let alone “American genius.” Sharon Weinberger is the author of “The Imagineers of War: The Untold Story of Darpa, the Pentagon Agency That Changed the World.”