CHICAGO — Art is as much about labor as it is about interpretation. It is about who created it and why as well as how we understand the end product. When we forget this, we strip art of its truest power. Last Friday, the artist and urban planner Chris Devins completed a mural in Chicago of the former first lady Michelle Obama. The project was funded in part by a GoFundMe campaign that collected more than $11,000. “The purpose of this mural is to give today’s children someone they can literally look up to and to celebrate Mrs. Obama’s life and accomplishments during the last 8 years as first lady of the United States,” Mr. Devins wrote on the GoFundMe page. It soon emerged that Mr. Devins had copied the image of Mrs. Obama, without acknowledgment, from the Instagram account of an artist named Gelila Mesfin. On Friday night, Ms. Mesfin criticized Mr. Devins on her Instagram for failing to ask her permission to copy the image, writing, “this is so disheartening and so disrespectful on so many levels.” The original photo of Mrs. Obama used in Ms. Mesfin’s image was taken by the photographer Collier Schorr for The New York Times (Ms. Mesfin credited Ms. Schorr for the image in her original Instagram post). In statements to the website DNAinfo Chicago, Mr. Devins apologized, saying that his organization often uses found images as sources of inspiration. Later, he said, “We were blown away by a wonderful image we stumbled on and only found out after the fact who the source of our inspiration was.” He also called his use of Ms. Mesfin’s image “sloppy” and reached out to the artist to offer a licensing fee. Mr. Devins’s apology fails to address why his method of finding, reclaiming and editing images was so problematic in the first place. Users of social platforms like Tumblr, Instagram and Facebook regularly act as “curators,” picking and choosing images to create a particular narrative and online presence. They are often unconcerned about the intent or identity of the images’ creators. Instead, users care about how the images fit into their personal aesthetics, helping them make a statement or tell a story. Mr. Devins took this already troubling online habit and transferred it to a real-world setting. He repurposed an image found online, put it on a wall and claimed it as his own. The term “found images” often refers to work from the distant past; the term connotes excavation, the discovery of artifacts. But Ms. Mesfin’s image was a recent work. Mr. Devins should have asked for permission to use and reinterpret the original work, not merely apologized after negative social media attention. To feign ignorance over the matter of image appropriation and artistic credit seems misguided at best, and malicious or selfish at worst. For a black woman, in particular, this hits square in the gut. How often have I seen my ideas and words stolen and manipulated by other people? How often must I accept this theft of creativity and labor as a matter of course? I am reminded of Martha Wash of the Weather Girls, whose vocals were used without proper credit in songs by acts such as Black Box and C. & C. Music Factory. She eventually sued record labels and producers for compensation and credit. Mr. Devins not only stole from the original artist. He also, in a sense, exploited the image of a black woman: Michelle Obama. The story of Ms. Mesfin’s image is a story of the labor of black women. Work, largely for other people, is inherent to black women’s existence. Our lives are fueled by effort: the effort to rise above, the effort to get ahead and the effort to gain respect. That is part of the reason we love Michelle Obama. She is intelligent and classy and beautiful and graceful. But we also know she worked very hard to get where she is. As the first lady and a black woman, she had to fulfill the duties of her very public role while existing in a systemically racist society. She could never stray from the path; she could never truly rest. Black women in particular can recognize this. I imagine Ms. Mesfin recognized it. That Mrs. Obama appeared like a Nubian queen is probably no accident. Grace under fire is a royal accomplishment. Stealing the image ignores the labor it took to make the work and the labor of its subject. To ignore this in a work meant to praise a black woman is to ignore what led to black women’s greatness in the first place.