This Week in Hate highlights hate crimes and harassment around the country since the election of President Trump. Kanwal Khurana loved living in Cleveland. He and his wife had moved from the suburbs to an apartment in the city in December. “It’s beautiful,” he said. “You can see the whole downtown.” But less than two months later, Mr. Khurana and his wife had just parked their car across the street from the building when they heard someone say, “go back to your own country.” The next morning, they discovered that someone had slashed all four of their tires. Mr. Khurana, 63, is retired from his job writing contracts for Cuyahoga County, and his wife is a homemaker. They help their son pay his tuition at Kent State. They have car insurance, but still had to come up with a $500 co-payment to have their car towed and repaired, plus the fee to rent a car in the meantime. The Khuranas reached out to city and state officials for help paying their bills. They discovered, as many victims of hate and harassment do, that getting financial assistance isn’t always easy. Victims of hate crimes can sue perpetrators under state and federal hate crime or other civil rights laws for compensatory damages and, in some cases, punitive damages as well. But first they need lawyers. The Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law recently began operating a hotline at 844-9-NO-HATE (844-966-4283), through which volunteers can help callers find legal representation. But beyond that, “there is no real comprehensive network around the country” to connect victims of hate crimes or harassment with lawyers, said Betsy Shuman-Moore, the director of the Hate Crime Project at the Chicago Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights. In the Chicago area, she added, legal resources for hate crime victims have actually decreased in recent years. When the perpetrator remains unidentified, as in the Khuranas’ case, a lawsuit is usually not an option. Some states, however, have funds set aside to help crime victims pay their expenses. Mr. Khurana wrote to the mayor of Cleveland, whose staff suggested he contact the Ohio attorney general’s office. The office maintains a victims’ compensation fund, but Mr. Khurana was told he was not eligible for compensation because he had not been physically injured. The office sent him a booklet titled “Picking Up the Pieces” with information about crime victims’ rights. Sometimes, friends or family — or strangers — step in to help hate crime victims. After Cristina Alfonso-Zea was attacked last year in the parking lot outside her home in Las Vegas by assailants who hit her in the head, stole her wallet and phone and wrote slurs on her car, her friend set up a GoFundMe campaign to help her. Ms. Alfonso-Zea, a veteran, already had post-traumatic stress disorder, which was exacerbated by the attack. The money from the campaign helped her fix her car and move away from the area where she was attacked. The campaign also helped her psychologically, she said: “It made me realize that there’s really good people out there that really care about you, even if they don’t know you.” She wishes hate crime victims got more information on compensation funds and other resources. “In Las Vegas, they teach us about flash flooding, they teach us abandonment of a rabbit is a felony,” she said, “but at the same time they don’t really teach us about having funds like that or having a safe place that you can go to.” Mrs. Khurana ultimately sold some of her jewelry to pay for their car expenses. The Khuranas don’t plan to move, but they are more careful when they go out in their neighborhood now, and they park their car in a different spot that costs $5 a day. Mr. Khurana is grateful he and his wife weren’t hurt — he thinks of the shooting of two Indian immigrants, Srinivas Kuchibhotla and Alok Madasani, in Kansas in February. “That night anything could have happened,” he said. “We still feel lucky.” If you have experienced, witnessed or read about a hate crime or incident of bias or harassment, you can use this form to send information about the incident to This Week in Hate and other partners in the Documenting Hate project. The form is not a report to law enforcement or any government agency. These resources may be helpful for people who have experienced harassment. If you witness harassment, here are some tips for responding. You can contact This Week in Hate at weekinhate@nytimes.com.