Contrary to Donald Trump’s indiscriminate portrayal of African-Americans as “living in hell,” the black upper middle class is ascending the economic ladder at a faster rate than its white counterpart. Scholars have begun to focus their attention on this phenomenon. William Julius Wilson, a sociologist at Harvard and the author of “The Truly Disadvantaged,” is working on a book about upward social mobility among African-Americans. In an email, he wrote me: One of the most significant changes in recent decades is the remarkable gains in income among more affluent blacks. When we adjust for inflation to 2014 dollars, the percentage of black Americans earning at least $75,000 more than doubled from 1970 to 2014, to 21 percent. Those making $100,000 or more almost quadrupled to 13 percent (in contrast white Americans saw a less striking increase, from 11 to 26 percent). In an NBER paper issued in November 2016, Patrick Bayer, an economist at Duke, and Kerwin Charles, a professor of public policy at the University of Chicago, published comparable findings, reporting that higher quantile black men have experienced substantial gains in both relative earnings levels and their positional rank in the white earnings distribution. In a summary of their work, Bayer and Charles made the same point more succinctly: “Over the past 75 years, the gap in economic rank” — that is, the gap between blacks and whites — “has narrowed sharply among men at the top of the earnings ladder.” Bayer and Charles conclude that the improvement in earnings for upper-income black men have had an uneven impact on African- American communities generally: While the entire economy has experienced a marked increase in earnings inequality, this increase has been even more dramatic for black men, with those at the top continuing to make clear gains within the earnings distribution, and those at the bottom being especially harmed by the era of mass incarceration and the failing job market for men with low skills. Census income data supports the conclusion reached by Wilson, Bayer and Charles that there was significant income growth among well-off African-Americans during the first 15 years of this century, in contrast to much smaller percentage gains among affluent whites. African-American households on the highest rungs of the economic ladder — the top 5 percent of all black households — experienced a substantial 19.8 percent income increase from 2000 to 2015. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, in inflation-adjusted 2015 dollars, these households saw a $41,871 gain, from $211,425 in 2000 to $253,296 in 2015. The top five percent of white households had incomes above those of African-Americans in this category, but they experienced a $4,498 or 1.2 percent, household income loss between 2000 and 2015, from $368,852 to $364,354. There remains a wide disparity in absolute income levels. In 2014, 8.1 percent of black households had incomes of $100,000 or more compared with 14.0 percent of white households. In addition, the income gains among the top fifth of African-American earners from 2000 to 2015 stand in contrast to declines for each quintile in the other 80 percent. Mean income in the bottom fifth of African-American households, for example, fell from $8,555 in inflation-adjusted dollars in 2000 to $7,020 in 2015. For those in the middle fifth, mean income fell from $40,731 to $37,184 over the same period. In terms of wealth (as opposed to income), a 2014 study by Credit Suisse and Brandeis University found that wealth is more highly concentrated at the top among blacks than among whites, and that the concentration is growing at a faster pace among blacks than whites: The concentration of wealth in the hands of the top segment of the African-American population is high. In 2009, the top 10% of African-Americans accounted for 67% of the wealth held by all African-Americans, up by 8 points from 59 percent in 2005. For whites in 2009, the top 10 percent owned 51 percent of all white-owned wealth, up from 46 percent of wealth in 2005. Just as income patterns are exacerbating inequality among African-Americans, so too are changes in the distribution of wealth. While wealth among the top 10 percent of blacks has become more concentrated, Pew found that the gap in average wealth among all blacks compared to all whites has worsened: In 1983, the median net worth of white households was eight times higher than the worth of black households. By 2013, white household net worth was 13 times that of black households. The most important trend driving African-American gains at the top can be found in the data on higher education. Between 1980 and 2016, the percentage of African Americans over the age of 25 who had completed a four-year college education tripled from 7.9 percent to 23.9 percent. Top-flight colleges and universities have played a crucial role in the growth of a black upper middle class. According to a January 2016 report in the Journal of Blacks In Higher Education, eight highly selective universities (Columbia, Stanford, Harvard, Yale, Emory, Vanderbilt, Duke and the University of Pennsylvania) and five highly selective colleges (Amherst, Pomona, Barnard, Wesleyan and Williams) had freshmen classes with 10 percent or more African-Americans in them. Many of these selective schools had notably high black graduation rates, ranging from 83 to 96 percent. While the income gains in the black community have been limited to those at the top of the ladder, there are other, broader, non-monetary gains. A 2016 analysis of the federal work force showed that there were 337,676 African-American government employees who made an average salary of $72,224 in 2015, putting them solidly in the middle class. In addition, an October 2016 Department of Defense analysis of active duty military personnel found that 25 percent of all 1st and 2nd lieutenants, more than 30 percent of all captains, and just under 20 percent of all majors were African-American — numbers well above the 13.3 percent of blacks in the population. There are a host of other significant positive indicators. Mortality rates for African-Americans are falling more sharply than they are for whites. The accompanying chart from a 2016 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention report shows mortality rates for whites and blacks steadily converging. In 1970, white men and women lived to an average of 71.7 years and black men and women lived to 64.1. By 2014, the average white American lived to 79.0 years, a 7.3 year improvement, but the average black American lived to be 75.6, an 11.5 year gain. There has been a parallel trend in high school graduation rates. In a 2013 study, Pew reported: In 1964, the year after the March on Washington, 51 percent of whites had completed high school, compared with 27 percent of blacks. The black high school completion rate was 53 percent that of the white rate. In 2007, the black rate was 91 percent that of the white rate. By 2012, the black high school completion rate was 93 percent that of the white rate. Patrick Bayer and Kerwin Charles reported in their 2016 NBER paper that The gains of black men at higher quintiles have been driven primarily by positional gains within education level due to forces like improved access to quality schools and declining occupational exclusion. At the median and below, strong racial convergence in educational attainment has been counteracted by the rising returns to education in the labor market, which have disproportionately disadvantaged the shrinking but still substantial share of blacks with lower education. In a phone interview, Charles said that changes in the employment marketplace, especially the rising demand for highly educated workers and the sharp drop in demand for those without college degrees, have been brutal for black men without a postsecondary education. In this sense, the civil rights movement came late for millions of African-Americans. Just as black high school graduation rates in the 1970s began to catch up to white rates, the market in well-paying jobs for those with high school diplomas (or less) began to collapse. The pattern was brilliantly described in Wilson’s “The Truly Disadvantaged”: manufacturing jobs started to decline in the late 1970s, preventing black Americans, especially black men, from gaining access to what had been a direct avenue into the middle class for millions of whites before them. At the same time, just as African-Americans achieved voting majorities and political power in major rust belt urban centers during the late 1960s and early 1970s, deindustrialization, the movement of factories to nonunion states, offshoring and, more broadly, globalization ate away at the tax bases of those cities. Newly elected black mayors in cities like Detroit and Cleveland faced diminished resources, eroding their ability to use political power to build a middle class as Irish, Italian and Polish and other ethnic leaders had before them. “Exactly at the time blacks caught up (getting high school degrees), the market ceased to reward that achievement,” Charles said in our phone interview. In consequence, “the median black man today occupies roughly the same position in the overall earnings distribution as that held by his father and by his grandfather,” Charles noted during a recent presentation at Brown University: By contrast, the relative position of the 90th percentile black man in the economic distribution has consistently improved compared to his white counterpart. What to make of all this? “Black people now inhabit all levels of the American class and occupational structure,” Elijah Anderson, a sociologist at Yale, writes in his forthcoming book, “Black in White Space.” They attend the best schools, pursue the professions of their choosing, and occupy various positions of power, privilege, and prestige. But for the ascendant black upper middle class, Anderson continues, “in the shadows lurks the specter of the urban ghetto. The iconic ghetto is always in the background,” shaping Americans’ conception of the anonymous black person as well as the circumstances of blacks of all walks of life. Much more needs to be done. Black America — in terms of income and wealth inequality, of bearing the brunt of globalization and automation, and of suffering the consequences of lowered demand for workers without college degrees — is in many ways a more extreme version of America generally. Just as working class whites denied a fair share of economic growth — and suffering the effects of the Great Recession more acutely than the affluent — surprised almost everyone in 2016 by initiating a class upheaval within the Republican Party, the same explosive mix is present in the black community. At some point, despite (and in some ways because of) the success of the top fifth of African-Americans, frustration over the failure of the other 80 percent to get their fair share will find parallel expression in the political system, although no one can anticipate what form that will take.