A Supreme Court quiz: Who offered this paean to judicial restraint: “If it is not necessary to decide more to a case, then in my view it is necessary not to decide more to a case”? Congratulations if you guessed Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. If you find the authorship surprising, perhaps you have been paying attention to what the man actually does, not just what he says. There’s considerable daylight between the two, and it may be growing. The chief justice made that statement in May 2006 in a speech at Georgetown University’s law school commencement. Consensus was preferable to division on the court, he told the law graduates, adding that a reliable route to achieving consensus in controversial cases was deciding them on the “narrowest possible grounds.” That was nearly 11 years ago, only eight months into his tenure. It was before Citizens United erased limits on corporate spending in politics, before Shelby County v. Holder eviscerated the Voting Rights Act, before Chief Justice Roberts swung for the fences in the Parents Involved case to bar formerly segregated school districts from trying to preserve integration through the use of racially conscious student assignment plans. (Only Justice Anthony M. Kennedy’s separate concurring opinion in that 5-to-4 decision retained some leeway for school districts looking for strategies to prevent resegregation.) And now we have Trinity Lutheran Church v. Comer, a case argued last week that presents the question whether a state that provides grants to schools for upgrading their playground surfaces can constitutionally disqualify a church-run nursery school from eligibility because of its religious character. That question is either trivial or profound, depending on the level at which one enters the debate; at the highest and most problematic level, the question is whether religion is entitled to a seat at the public-benefit table as a matter of federal constitutional law, despite the many state constitutions that prohibit taxpayer money from going directly to churches. “It’s a fraught issue. It’s a hard issue,” Justice Elena Kagan observed during the argument, and that’s certainly true. What’s also true is that because of an unexpected development on the eve of the argument, the question as presented in this particular case is moot. In another words, the controversy no longer exists, because the state now agrees with Trinity Lutheran’s position. And that’s what makes the court’s next move — to dismiss? to plow ahead anyway? to rule broadly? narrowly? — so fascinating. The choice the justices make in the coming weeks will tell us something important about the newly reconstituted Roberts court, specifically whether its commitment lies with consensus or with the regained power of five votes. Some necessary background: The case is from Missouri, which since the mid-19th century has had a provision in its Constitution that bars money from the “public treasury” from going “directly or indirectly in aid of any church, sect, or denomination of religion.” As interpreted by state officials, that meant that although Trinity Lutheran Church, in Columbia, met the other eligibility criteria for the playground grant money for its nursery school — which is avowedly part of its religious mission — it was disqualified. The church sued the state on the ground that the refusal violated its rights to equal protection and to the free exercise of religion. It lost in the lower federal courts and appealed to the Supreme Court in November 2015. In January 2016, the justices agreed to hear the case. Although such votes aren’t publicly announced, there is little doubt that Justice Antonin Scalia cast one of the votes to accept the case. At least four votes are needed to grant a case; perhaps in this instance there were five. It was one of Justice Scalia’s last votes. He died four weeks later, as the court neared the end of a monthlong recess. Ordinarily, a case granted in mid-January is heard in April, with a decision by the time the term ends in late June. But Trinity Lutheran wasn’t scheduled last April. Nor was it scheduled when the new term opened in October, nor the rest of last fall, nor the opening months of 2017. The only plausible explanation for this highly unusual delay is that without Justice Scalia, the court was divided 4 to 4. A tie vote affirms the lower court’s ruling, which is hardly what the justices who voted to hear this case had in mind. Finally, in February, the court chose April 19 as the argument date. The reason probably had nothing to do with guesswork over whether Judge Neil Gorsuch would be confirmed in time to participate in the April arguments. Rather, because the court hears no arguments after April, failing to schedule the case this month would have pushed it off for still another term. An oddity would have become an embarrassment. That brings us to April 13 of this year, when Missouri’s new governor, Eric Greitens, a Republican who succeeded Gov. Jay Nixon, a Democrat, announced that he disagreed with the existing policy and would henceforth make grants for playgrounds available to church-related schools that qualified. With the argument looming, the Supreme Court directed both sides to explain how the state’s change of position affected the case. Both sides replied with letters that resisted any suggestion that the case was moot. The policy might change back someday, the Missouri attorney general told the justices. The church, represented by Alliance Defending Freedom, a prominent Christian-right advocacy organization, might well have declared victory, but instead argued for keeping the case alive. It agreed with the state that the change might not be permanent and also suggested — seemingly against its own interests — that the Missouri Supreme Court might view the new policy as a violation of the state’s Constitution. During last week’s argument — in Justice Gorsuch’s first week on the bench — the justices paid scant attention to the procedural issue. The church’s lawyer, David A. Cortman, was nearly out of time before Justice Stephen G. Breyer addressed it by asking him, “Why isn’t the case moot?” The justice seemed unpersuaded by the lawyer’s answer that the policy might change again “if the political winds change.” Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg suggested that while the case might not be “technically” moot, the court wouldn’t have considered it “an appropriate case to review” if it had arrived in the posture it has since acquired. As experienced court watchers know, oral argument is only the tip of the decisional iceberg. The fact that the justices didn’t debate mootness in public doesn’t mean they are not debating it in private. Clearly, some members of the court have spent the past year clinging to this case as the best vehicle at hand for advancing the conservatives’ project of lowering the barrier between church and state, and they won’t want to give it up now. Just as clearly, others are not on board, and they may see the late-breaking development as the only chance to slow down a fast-moving train. Last Thursday, the day after the argument, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. traveled to Lancaster, Pa., to speak at the annual Third Circuit Judicial Conference, the Mid-Atlantic federal circuit where he served as a federal appeals court judge before being named to the Supreme Court. Justices who speak at these conferences, as they do regularly, generally avoid making news, and Justice Alito, perhaps feeling uninhibited among friends, may not have realized he was making any. But as reported by Jess Bravin in The Wall Street Journal, he did. “Having eight was unusual and awkward,” Justice Alito said, according to The Journal article. “That probably required having a lot more discussion of some things and more compromise and maybe narrower opinions than we would have issued otherwise, but as of this Monday, we were back to an odd number.” That’s a bold statement that hardly needs translation, but here’s mine anyway: We’ve got our mojo back. Consensus? That was so 2016. And the Roberts court in 2017? Now it begins.