Philadelphia — Last week, a hashtag called #ThingsOnlyWomenWritersHear zipped around Twitter, giving women the chance to share the condescension and the cluelessness that writing while female guarantees. There were assumptions about how everything a woman writes is automatically chick lit, links to the latest essays about great American novelists that failed to mention women, and tweets like “I loved your article — did you write it while the baby napped?” And of course, there was the assumption that every protagonist a woman writes is her and that every plot is something she experienced, even if the protagonist is a space alien and the “something” is the Civil War. Men invent; women transcribe. Men’s books are windows onto some grander, more universal experience; women’s books are mirrors, reflecting the author’s own eating, praying and loving. It’s the kind of thing you hate to see happen to any writer. Until that writer is the deposed Fox News bloviator Bill O’Reilly. Mr. O’Reilly, of course, has been in slow-motion free-fall ever since this paper reported that Fox had paid more than $13 million to five female colleagues who had accused him of sexual harassment. He lost his job. He lost his reputation. And then things got really bad: Critics and comics rediscovered the novel he had published back in 1998 — before the tomes on Reagan, Lincoln and Jesus — and Bill O’Reilly got treated as if he writes like a girl. The degradation began with Stephen Colbert’s riff on the book, “Those Who Trespass,” which stars “a brash TV journalist, named Shannon Michaels, who is fired from his network news job” and who, as one does, goes on a homicidal killing spree. “His career was the source of his feelings of omnipotence and grandiosity,” Mr. Colbert quoted. “Being on TV was like a drug to him, and when it was taken away from him he had to find a substitute drug: planning and carrying out the executions of those people who had humiliated him.” “Bill … buddy … hello, handsome,” Mr. Colbert said, “I just want to point out — I never humiliated you, O.K.?” Jia Tolentino at The New Yorker noted that the book “feels transparently personal” and that “it’s impossible to take in the steady stream of coldly rendered violence in O’Reilly’s novel” without thinking of the writer himself. The implications of the New Yorker piece are clear: Bill O’Reilly did not invent the character of a homicidal newsman. Bill O’Reilly is a homicidal newsman. For all we know, he might just kill his former colleagues in the improbable ways explicated in “Those Who Trespass.” Watch out for that iced-tea-stirring spoon, Gretchen Carlson! Stay away from open windows, Megyn Kelly! Even though he’d been fired, even though he’d been shamed, even though his inability to distinguish between a loofah and a falafel, and which one you’d use on a naked woman, had already been revealed in a lawsuit, this was a new realm of humiliation to explore. But equating the narrator with the author is only one of many risks of writing while female, and I hope that as Mr. O’Reilly continues to remain in the public eye and promote his other titles, he’ll get to experience more of them. I hope some reporter asks Mr. O’Reilly how his ex-wife, or his former boss, felt about those pornographic descriptions of violence. I hope an interviewer will point out — as if he’d never thought about it himself — that someday, his kids might read the book, and ask what he’s going to tell them when they do. I hope he’s forced to talk about how he managed his marriage and family while he was working full-time and writing on the side. I hope he has to explain who did the housework when he did his book tour and who watched the kids while he wrote. I hope that someone tells him, before he gets his next author photo taken, that he’d sell more books if he smiled. This seems, alas, unlikely. Mr. O’Reilly is said to have gotten as much as $25 million for leaving Fox, and the right to maintain that the sexual harassment claims are “completely unfounded” and that his accusers are a pack of mendacious liars looking for an easy payday from a vulnerable public figure. “I’ve been treated unfairly,” is his rallying cry, even as his publisher continues to put out his books, even as those books continue to top the best-seller list. Real unfairness, of course, is when a man can be accused of victimizing and harassing female colleagues for decades and face absolutely no consequences until his bad behavior affects his company’s bottom line. I hope that every reporter and critic who covers Mr. O’Reilly the author will ask Mr. O’Reilly the newsman about these misdeeds. And if that doesn’t happen? I hope that every profile makes careful note of his shoes and his clothing. I hope every reporter asks about his work-life balance, and every stranger at every cocktail party and back-to-school night asks how his loved ones felt about all of that kinky sex and gaudy violence. I hope that a man who got away with mistreating female colleagues spends the rest of his writing life being treated like a girl.