This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. In our politically polarized country, it’s easy to find confirmation for your beliefs. Just ask your like-minded friends. Or watch the television shows, read the writers and listen to the politicians who tend to be on your side. In my column today, I urge both Betsy DeVos, the education secretary, and her critics to consider evidence that runs counter to their pre-existing beliefs. I hope DeVos will be open to the evidence showing that school vouchers have largely been a failure, and I hope progressives will be open to the evidence showing the many successes of charter schools. Too often, people either reflexively support both vouchers and charters or oppose both. Working on the column led me to ask which of my own pre-existing beliefs I am willing to question. I came up with two, and I invite readers to send thoughts about either to leonhardt@nytimes.com. (When I’ve asked for input from you in the past, the responses have been wonderful.) First, I’ve started to wonder whether my views on health care have been too conservative. For a long time, I’ve believed that single-payer health care was politically infeasible and that private health insurance had significant advantages over government-run programs. But the Republican assault on the private Obamacare exchanges has led me to think that a creeping single-payer system — which is to say, expanded Medicare and Medicaid — may be as politically feasible as the status quo. Substantively, Medicare and Medicaid also seem to be well-run and popular programs. Second, I’ve started to wonder whether my views on immigration are too liberal. I’ve long been a passionate believer in the benefits of immigration to the United States. That belief remains firm. But I have also come to appreciate some of the conservative arguments in favor of reduced immigration among less-skilled workers. In particular, the slowdown of immigration in the mid-20th century seems to have brought significant benefits to the immigrants who had previously arrived in this country. That slowdown allowed them to climb the economic ladder while facing less competition. Shifting today’s mix toward higher-skilled immigrants may be one small way to combat inequality. I’m still trying to work through my thoughts on health care and immigration, and would welcome any reading suggestions or other ideas. I’d also enjoy hearing about your own political uncertainty. At a time when so many of us seem certain about so many issues, a little uncertainty is a healthy thing.