The leadership of the Department of Health and Human Services is getting an anti-abortion makeover. Charmaine Yoest, the former head of Americans United for Life, was named assistant secretary of health and human services in charge of public affairs late last week. (The post used to require Senate confirmation, but no longer does.) And Teresa Manning, a former lobbyist for the National Right to Life Committee, is said to have been chosen for the post of deputy assistant secretary for population affairs. Every administration brings some fervent activists into the fold. Tom Price, the H.H.S. secretary, is also a committed abortion foe, and now, with these appointments, he has important allies in senior positions in his agency. The selection of Ms. Yoest and Ms. Manning is likely to set the stage for battles over the science that supports the role abortion and birth control play in promoting public health. Ms. Yoest became one of the best-known figures in the anti-abortion world by putting a gentler spin on the movement’s rhetoric accusing women and abortion providers of murdering babies. (Ms. Yoest and her husband, Jack, have been far harsher in writing about L.B.G.T. people in posts recently scrubbed from her website that have been preserved elsewhere.) At Americans United for Life, Ms. Yoest declared that abortion opponents help women by shielding them from the procedure’s supposed risks. She has insisted that abortion increases a woman’s risk of breast cancer, a claim that the National Cancer Institute, the American Cancer Society and the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists have decisively rejected, based on an abundance of research. Ms. Yoest was also a chief architect of the effort to pass state laws that claimed to protect women, by requiring abortion clinics to be outfitted like surgical centers and abortion providers to have admitting privileges at hospitals. Last June, the strategy ran aground at the Supreme Court, which accepted the medical consensus that abortion is a relatively safe procedure and that a set of Texas abortion restrictions “served no medical purpose,” as the American Medical Association put it in a brief to the court. Ms. Yoest and Ms. Manning are also dismissive of the proof that improving access to birth control reduces abortions. “It’s really a red herring that the abortion lobby likes to bring up by conflating abortion and birth control,” Ms. Yoest said on PBS in 2011. “Because that would be, frankly, carrying water for the other side to allow them to redefine the issue in that way.” Ms. Manning has been more direct, twisting the logic about birth control. “In fact, the incidence of contraception use and the incidence of abortion go up hand in hand,” she said on NPR in 2003. Ms. Manning will be in charge of the Title X federal family planning program, which provides birth control access to mostly low-income and uninsured women. At the moment, the H.H.S. website for Title X directs readers to a set of recommendations by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for “providing quality family planning services.” Contraception tops the list. That seems obvious enough, but what will happen to the government’s efforts in the hands of Ms. Manning, given her dismissal of the benefits of birth control? In particular, Ms. Manning and Ms. Yoest oppose the use of IUDs, the form of birth control that is most effective at preventing pregnancy, according to the C.D.C. They think IUDs effectively cause abortions, even though that, too, runs contrary to the medical consensus. Now they could try to hold up federal funding to provide these devices to low-income women. IUDs have been crucial to making the biggest strides in years in reducing unplanned pregnancies, as public-health organizations and agencies work to increase the number of women who use them. Title X and Medicaid, which is overseen by the department, have also provided for confidentiality for teenagers seeking birth control. But conservative groups like the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops have challenged that protection, urging the government to mandate parental involvement. Ms. Manning is now in a position to push for rewriting the rules, even though research shows that would mean fewer teenagers getting services from family planning clinics. The list of rules that Ms. Yoest and Ms. Manning could try to change goes on. There’s the protocol for the so-called abortion pill to terminate pregnancy, which is regulated by the Food and Drug Administration, an arm of H.H.S. And there is the contraception mandate in the Affordable Care Act, which requires most employers to provide health insurance to pay for contraception. The Trump administration has already rolled back the Obama-era rule that prevented states from denying family-planning funds to Planned Parenthood. Ms. Manning could go further, by guiding states on how to cut off the organization. Many of these shifts would prompt a legal fight. “We stand ready to bring to court anything the Trump administration does that acts arbitrarily and capriciously to harm women’s health,” said Nancy Northup, president of the Center for Reproductive Rights. Her group sued the Bush and Obama administrations when the F.D.A. refused to make emergency contraception available over the counter, and won because studies showed the government policy impeded access to birth control. Ms. Yoest’s new role as head of public affairs for H.H.S. will be more about messaging than rules or laws. She’ll oversee about 90 employees and many more contractors and a budget of more than $30 million. She’ll help coordinate news releases from all parts of the agency, including the C.D.C. and the F.D.A. She’s the department’s chief Freedom of Information Act officer. And she’s in charge of its websites and digital campaigns. Kevin Griffis, who held Ms. Yoest’s new post during the Obama administration and now works at Planned Parenthood, pointed out in an interview that during the Zika outbreak, the C.D.C. was frank in saying that birth control — in this case, condoms — was crucial for preventing the spread of the virus. The next time contraception or another aspect of reproductive rights factors into a crisis, will the same public-health imperative hold at H.H.S.? “No matter who is in office, scientists and doctors are on the lookout for inappropriate political meddling in their work,” Mr. Griffis said. When I wrote about Ms. Yoest five years ago for The New York Times Magazine and tried to understand her rejection of the data on abortion and birth control, she told me the problem was that the scientific establishment was “under the control of the abortion lobby. ” Now that’s no longer the case, at least at H.H.S.