Last week, the hair-care line SheaMoisture faced a powerful customer backlash. The offense was a series of online video clips that highlighted the versatility of the brand’s shampoos, conditioners and styling aids. One clip features women discussing how much they struggle with their hair. Some of the women are white; the only non-white woman prominently featured in the clip is very light-skinned with loosely textured curly hair. The ad encourages women to reject “hair hate” and “embrace hair love in every form.” When the video was released on social media, SheaMoisture’s black customers revolted. Social media users with huge followings, many of whom have provided years of free advertising for the brand, criticized it as marginalizing their loyal black buyers in an effort to attract white women. Understanding SheaMoisture’s target market is critical to understanding this backlash. The brand has long been marketed to black women with “natural hair” — hair that is not chemically straightened. For black women, the choice to “be natural” is simultaneously private and extremely political. It shouldn’t matter what black women do with their hair, but racism means that it matters a great deal. Deeply ingrained bias against black women’s natural, unstraightened hair has tangible effects on women’s lives. Lighter-skinned black women and black women with straighter hair are more likely to marry than other black women. Black women with natural hair have been subject to discrimination at work and in the military. When black women bought SheaMoisture products, they were rejecting powerful stereotypes about black women’s hair as inherently unattractive. Unwittingly or not, SheaMoisture was part of a political project for black women, helping us resist harmful biases about our natural hair that circumscribe our choices and well-being. But Sundial Brands, the black-owned company that runs SheaMoisture, has its own goals. In 2015, it company sold a minority stakee to Bain Capital to finance an expansion. At the time, Richelieu Dennis, the chief executive of Sundial, said SheaMoisture would be pursuing the “new general market,” which he described as a “consolidation of cultures, ethnicities and demographics aligned with commonalities, needs and lifestyles.” To believe it is possible to diversify SheaMoisture beyond its black natural-hair customer base, one must believe that black beauty is desirable for non-black consumers. For that to be true, black women would have to be an ideal beauty type in the global market that Mr. Dennis was going after. Mr. Dennis had one problem: reality. The sociologist Margaret Hunter writes about a concept she calls the beauty queue: a hierarchy of desirable female characteristics. At the head of the queue are white women with pale skin, narrow features and straight (ideally blond) hair. Behind them are the rest of the world’s women, in descending order from most to least white-looking, with black women at the end. This theory describes what black women in the United States have experienced for two centuries: lighter skin and “Anglo” features are a type of global capital that derives its value from the status of white people. For an example of the beauty queue in action, you need only compare the marketing of Korean beauty (or “K-beauty”) products to what SheaMoisture attempted to do last week. According to one beauty industry marketing publication, South Korea’s beauty exports grew to $3.9 billion in 2016 from $800 million in 2011. Even amid a retail slump, elite retailers like Barneys have carved out floor space for K-beauty lines, while lifestyle bloggers promote “must have” K-beauty products. . These products are selling a very specific version of Korean beauty. Their advertisements do not reflect the full range of skin tones of Asian women. Instead, they feature remarkably pale women selling products whose primary selling point is how “luminescent” they will make skin appear. K-beauty is noted for its many “whitening” products, from soaps to treatments. They have names like Missha Time Revolution White Cure Blanc Tone-Up Cream, Klavuu White Pearlsation Pearl Serum Mask, and Skinfood Yuja Water C Whitening Ampoule. Products like these reinforce white women’s position at the head of the beauty queue. They are ultimately selling the idea summarized in a black Southern folk saying: “White is all right; Brown get out of town; Black jump back.” SheaMoisture could not sell a product meant to make black women look “whiter,” such as a chemical treatment to straighten hair, without changing its entire product line. But it could concede to the demands of capital by marketing its existing products to non-black women. SheaMoisture eventually apologized, acknowledging the insult many black women felt. By prominently featuring white women in what had become a political project, the company had signaled to black women that we could never be enough. Beauty is never just about preference. It is about economics and power and exclusion. Brands like SheaMoisture rely on certain ideas of what is beautiful to make money. And too often, selling beauty means throwing black women under the bus.