This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Why is the Republican Party having a Groundhog Day experience on health care, with its House leaders continuing to push for a bill only to go through the same cycle of having their own members rebel? Because top Republicans still aren’t willing to grapple with reality. They have spent years pretending that it’s easy to fix the health care system and lying about both Obamacare and their own proposals. They’re still doing it. I found it particularly sad to watch Paul Ryan, the speaker of the House, stoop to offering the same kind of obvious untruths as President Trump regularly does. On Tuesday, Ryan insisted — with no factual basis — that the new bill would protect the sick. “Politicians always stretched truth & cherry-picked facts,” the economist David Rothschild tweeted yesterday. “But very concerning that career politician, Speaker of House, just flat out lies.” This past weekend, President Trump gave an unintentionally revealing interview to CBS’s John Dickerson that I recommend reading if you didn’t already watch. In it, Trump displays no grasp of the mechanics of health policy and instead repeats a series of nice-sounding promises, most of which are simply false: “The health care bill is going to help my supporters.” “Pre-existing conditions are in the bill.” “We’re going to have lower premiums.” “This bill is much different than it was a little while ago.” Evidently — and unfortunately — you can win elections by making up your own facts about health care, among other things. But it’s hard to pass a bill based on fiction. And it will be even harder to pass the bill through the Senate, if it somehow makes it through the House. Health policy, like most of life, involves trade-offs — between helping the sick and the healthy, the young and the old, the rich and the poor, and even between benefiting doctors and patients. Just about every politician tends to downplay these trade-offs, but Trump, Ryan and some of their colleagues go further and conjure fairy tales involving easy fixes and no hard choices. So far, at least, enough members of Congress have refused to play along to prevent the bill from passing. Here’s hoping reality continues to prevail. On the same subject, I recommend Paul Krugman’s recent column, employing a balloon-and-box analogy, if you haven’t already read it, as well as Jonathan Cohn and Jeffrey Young, both in HuffPost, and Sarah Kliff in Vox.