As President Trump ended his first 100 days in office last week, I found myself in China, a good place to judge how he has transformed the presidency’s bully pulpit. During the campaign, Mr. Trump denounced Chinese trade policies, saying he would not allow Beijing “to rape our country” any longer. In early April, when President Trump met President Xi Jinping of China at Mar-a-Lago, in Palm Beach, Fla., he continued the tough talk. He and his aides told the Chinese delegation that the administration would impose restrictions on Chinese investments in the United States if Beijing did not lower its barriers to American investments in China. It is too soon to tell whether the Chinese will change their policies. But there are signs that the president’s antagonistic approach has opened the door to strategic cooperation on one of the world’s biggest problems: North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. China already has suspended coal imports from Pyongyang in compliance with United Nations sanctions, and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said that China would impose more sanctions if North Korea continues its nuclear testing program. China’s foreign ministry spokesman said last week, “I can say in terms of solving the North Korean crisis, China’s efforts can’t be overstated.” There are also signs that Mr. Trump’s style is resonating with ordinary Chinese. Considering the harshness of his past statements about China, I was surprised by the number of people I met there who expressed respect for him. “He is a very successful businessman,” one said. “He is strong,” another said. One person noted, “I think in the past your country respected such people.” Apparently, the Chinese never took Mr. Trump’s campaign rhetoric personally. They saw it as his starting point — a “negotiating position,” as Mr. Trump himself might say. At home, President Trump is garnering far less reverence. Our political and media elites, along with Democratic critics, see Mr. Trump as overly provocative, unbalanced and lacking in any real results. They point to his thin legislative record. But those critics have failed to appreciate how Mr. Trump’s strong positions on foreign policy have had a positive impact. The president has put North Korea on notice while bolstering South Korea with the Thaad missile defense system. Even as he has voiced support for NATO, he has continued to demand that its members pay their fair share for defense — likely a factor in Germany’s decision to increase its troop strength. Struck by the inhumanity of Syria’s use of chemical weapons on innocent civilians, the president struck back in a measured way, ordering a strike of 59 Tomahawk missiles. Rogue actors like President Bashar al-Assad of Syria and his Iranian benefactors have been warned. Mr. Trump has also shown the ability to learn on the job, having become a realist toward Russia and shown new caution in dealings with two allies, Turkey and Israel. On Iran, he has expressed flexibility regarding the nuclear deal he once denounced. Mr. Trump has also used his White House platform to begin changing sclerotic domestic policies and politics. In shaking the tree, he is causing old leaves to fall even as healthy ones remain in place, still strong. Simply by stepping up enforcement against undocumented workers, he has caused word to spread south of the border. Today, apprehensions of people crossing the southwest border illegally from Mexico are down 61 percent from January. The president’s policies have created a virtual wall, one that may obviate the need for the $20 billion eyesore after all. Mr. Trump has also already forced American companies to think twice about exporting jobs. And one conservative organization estimates his efforts to eliminate onerous and expensive regulations could save American businesses and consumers $60 billion or more. I know some of Mr. Trump’s proposals seem frightening to many people. His budget calls for draconian cuts, such as reducing State Department spending by 28 percent and eliminating federal support for beloved programs like PBS and the National Endowment for the Arts. His tax plan also might look as if it benefits mainly wealthy individuals and businesses, slashing the corporate tax rate to just 15 percent, from 35 percent. But remember, for Mr. Trump these things are opening bids. Knowing him as I do, as a friend, I can imagine a more modest final budget that leaves most programs intact and compromises on a corporate tax rate of 25 percent. At the end of the day, Donald Trump is a dealmaker. At 70, he is also not about to change. He won’t stop saying things that rub people the wrong way. And he will not stop tweeting — nor should he (though perhaps there should be a process for reviewing his tweets before posting). His theatrical persona, his rallies and his hyperbolic tweets have become the “big stick” he waves from his transformed bully pulpit. Through his message he has moved markets, steered global business in a better direction for American companies and defended American workers. He has also put bad actors, domestic and foreign, on notice. Even I do not agree with everything the president says or does. But we should be willing to recognize that, at times, he can be very effective. The Chinese have.