Last Wednesday, President Trump unveiled his huge tax cut, unmistakably geared to helping business and the wealthy. A few days later, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said at a business conference in Beverly Hills, Calif., that there would be no net tax cut for the rich because it would be offset by closing loopholes and deductions. That was hardly the first time Mr. Mnuchin made that patently absurd assertion nor the only occasion on which he and other members of the Trump administration had similarly misled the public about the nature of the tax plan. In fact, when Mr. Mnuchin first offered his unequivocal pronouncement, at his confirmation hearing in January, Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, quickly called the commitment the “Mnuchin rule.” A few weeks later, in his first television interview as secretary, Mr. Mnuchin said, “We’re primarily focused on a middle-income tax cut and simplification for business.” When the first dribblings of specifics arrived, they included lowering the top rate on earned income, eliminating a 3.8 percent levy on investment income, and doing away with the estate tax and the alternative minimum tax. (For 2005, Mr. Trump paid $31 million in A.M.T. and only $5.3 million in regular tax on total income of $153 million.) Yes, some deductions are to be eliminated, most notably for state and local taxes, but I’ll bet a lot of money that when the Trump administration provides enough details for the experts to “score” the proposal, the rich will be the big winners. And that’s not even counting the trickle-down effect of the business tax cuts, which appear to total about two-thirds of the package. I guess Mnuchin rules are made to be broken. But he is not alone. “This is a targeted tax deduction for the middle class,” the White House chief of staff, Reince Priebus, said Sunday on ABC’s “This Week,” in another huge misstatement of what the Trump bill would do. (He meant “reduction,” not “deduction.”) In an interview Monday on “CBS This Morning,” Gary Cohn, the former Goldman Sachs president who is now director of the National Economic Council, argued that the increase in the standard deduction qualified Mr. Trump’s plan as a “middle-class tax cut.” The problem, as David Kamin quickly pointed out in Democracy, is that a family of two or more pays less tax under current law than it would under Mr. Trump’s plan because of the availability of both a standard deduction and personal exemptions, which Mr. Trump said in the campaign he would end. All told, the Trump tax initiative to date has been a tale of broken promises and obfuscation about its true impact. Perhaps we shouldn’t be surprised. Misleading the public about the true nature of its policies has become a hallmark of this administration. In recent days, Mr. Trump has been routinely misstating the effect that the current draft of a new health care law would have on those with pre-existing conditions. What’s particularly odd about Mr. Trump’s approach to taxes is that the plan he announced as president is far less detailed than what he put forward as a candidate. Typically, when a president makes a proposal, it has more specifics than a campaign agenda item. Whether this unusual behavior has been driven by his arbitrary nature (the 100-day mark loomed) or by cleverly trying to be sufficiently vague to prevent the costs and impact from being assessed remains a mystery. When the plan was unveiled in the White House briefing room, not a word was said about the fate of the carried interest break enjoyed by hedge-fund and private equity managers, even though abolishing it had been a hallmark of Mr. Trump’s campaign. After strong pushback, the administration began saying that it would be dealt with in details still to be revealed — but will it? Similar vagueness has enshrouded a campaign proposal for a child care credit, while a plan to eliminate corporations’ ability to deduct interest payments has disappeared, at least for the moment, as has the campaign plan to limit the amount of interest payments that business can deduct. As for the cost of the plan, Mr. Mnuchin said Monday at the business gathering, the Milken Institute Global Conference, that “we expect to pay for this through economic growth.” Another wild misstatement. By Mr. Mnuchin’s own math, if the economy expands by 3 percent instead of the current rate of roughly 2 percent, about $2 trillion of revenue would be created. But there are two problems with that assertion. First, achieving that growth level is highly unlikely. And second, according to the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, the Trump plan would cost about $5.5 trillion over the next 10 years. All told, some transparency and honesty about its tax plans would be a welcome change for the Trump administration.