This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. After the House passed a cruel and unpopular health care bill on Thursday, many people (including me, I’ll confess) immediately began talking about the likely effects on the 2018 midterms. Smart political observers believe that Republicans just increased their odds of losing House control, which would be a very big deal. But there is plenty of time later to worry about the 2018 midterms. The focus now should be on the Senate. If 50 senators (plus Vice President Mike Pence, who breaks ties) vote for a bill anything like the House bill, it would do great damage to the country. It would harm people who suffer from a wide range of health conditions, including birth defects, cancer, diabetes and just about every other disease — including many people who are perfectly healthy today but could one day fall sick. The bill would also transfer billions of dollars from the poor and the middle class to the wealthy, who are doing just fine already, thank you. So as disappointed as people might be about the House’s vote — and as eager as they might be to start the 2018 campaign — another project needs to take priority. The same groups and individual citizens, across left, center and right, that helped shine a light on the House health care bill, delaying its passage and making it so unpopular nationwide, need to shift their attention to the Senate. If every Democratic and independent senator votes against the bill, three Republicans would also need to do so to defeat it. It would be a big mistake to take for granted the result in the Senate. It would be akin, Politico’s Matthew Nussbaum noted, to the overconfidence that people felt after Donald Trump won the Republican presidential nomination. As impressive as the activism around the House bill was, it ultimately fell short — and there are now some signs of exhaustion. My advice: Take a little time to study up on the dynamics in the Senate. Think about what you can do to prevent 24 million Americans from losing health care. And remember that making phone calls or attending events is a lot more effective than merely posting to social media. For overviews of health care in the Senate, check out Perry Bacon Jr. of FiveThirtyEight and Julie Rovner of Kaiser Health News. Topher Spiro of the Center for American Progress is worth following on Twitter, where he often makes detailed suggestions about how people can get involved. And for a rundown of what’s in the bill and whom it could hurt, read this Times editorial.