PARIS — I read the news about the passage of the House health care bill a continent away, on assignment in Europe. The distance did nothing to lift the weight on my heart, as the parent of a child with a pre-existing condition. More than 20 years ago, when I sat keening in a hospital anteroom, after the scans and the somber looks and the clueless young intern who told me she would go home and cry for us, my family and I joined the ranks of the unlucky. A rare disease, a grim prognosis, a suffering child. May those who passed this bill never know what it is like to sleep and wake every day with an anvil pressed against your chest, tasting the terror, pushing it away so that you can comfort and care for both the sick and the well in your family. First you endure the treatments harsh enough to kill, then the surgeries, the hospitalizations, the agonizing wait for the daily test scores, the frantic consultations with doctors and residents. And if you are fortunate enough, as we were, to somehow beat the odds, to emerge shakily from the Dantean depths and savor the prospect of a child who could grow to adulthood, there remained the cold calculus of the insurance companies. This child, this adult, was labeled an unacceptable risk, either denied insurance altogether or relegated to the high-risk pool, saddled with sky-high premiums and constant uncertainty. Whatever its flaws, the Affordable Care Act lifted this burden from us and other families struck by unexpected, unpredictable illness. My young adult has monitored every twist and turn of the effort to repeal the law, calling and texting us from college, fearing for the future — not for himself, but for others. This is a child who has surmounted so many obstacles, only to encounter one we thought was set aside for good. When my child was first diagnosed, I struggled with uncharacteristic rage. I felt as if other families were enclosed in a smug bubble, spared the understanding that misfortune can be random and inexplicable. Over the years, I have learned that anger was sadly misplaced. I have watched tragedy touch too many. Schadenfreude is no remedy. I would not wish what my family has endured on anyone, even the legislators who voted to take away the protection that gave us such relief. I don’t really care about theory, about which is the more efficient way to rein in costs, or to give families the most choices. To me, preserving the principle that people should not be punished for a fate they could not control seems fundamental. At the end of the day, this is not about ideology. It’s about humanity.