When the F.B.I. director, James Comey, told senators on Wednesday that he was “mildly nauseous to think” that he had had an impact on the presidential election, a certain subset of Americans suddenly felt more than a little queasy themselves. It wasn’t necessarily over the idea that Mr. Comey tipped the race to Donald Trump by revealing shortly before Election Day that the F.B.I. was looking at new emails possibly connected to its Hillary Clinton investigation. It was over his use of the word “nauseous.” Or rather, misuse. According to The New York Times stylebook (and dictionaries, and the style guides of many other publications), “nauseous” is the property of making other people feel sick to their stomachs. A bad smell, for instance, could be nauseous. So too could be a sea voyage or a top law enforcement official’s actions in the days before the most consequential presidential election in generations. People on the receiving end, however, get “nauseated.” So, properly speaking, Mr. Comey should have been “nauseated” by his “nauseous” thoughts. It’s a distinction that has been drilled into countless English students over the years. But it’s a distinction that’s increasingly ignored. The language guide “Garner’s Modern American Usage,” for instance, says the swap of “nauseous” for “nauseated” is “becoming so common that to call it an error is to exaggerate,” though it adds that “careful writers tend to be sickened by the slippage.” So it’s probably inevitable that “nauseous” will one day completely take the place of “nauseated.” And that’s not so bad since English has a fine, if longer, word that says what nauseous in its strict sense does: “nauseating,” which frees up “nauseous” to take on new duties. One opinion writer, in fact, reacted to Mr. Comey’s use of “nauseous” in the way he meant it. “Mildly?” the Op-Ed columnist Andrew Rosenthal wrote. “He should be sick at heart, because there is no doubt that he affected the election, and it seems pretty obvious that he knew that he would do just that.” For now, that sense of “mildly nauseous” will surely remain in quotation marks in the news pages of The Times, or will be paraphrased into “nauseated.” And lexical sticklers — or at least the ones bitterly ruing Mrs. Clinton’s loss — might tell Mr. Comey that they find him a lot more than just mildly nauseous.