Much as the Blue Ridge Mountains towered over campus, “Vietnam” loomed constantly in the background that spring, exactly 50 years ago, when 264 classmates and I were preparing to graduate from the all-male, almost all-white Washington & Lee University in Lexington, Va. Next door at the Virginia Military Institute, where the graduates would automatically become commissioned officers, Vietnam loomed even larger. When we had entered college in 1963, there were 16,300 American military personnel in Vietnam — engaged, as far as we knew, in noncombat “advisory” roles. By the time we graduated four years later, the number had swelled to 485,000, with hundreds of thousands fighting in open combat. Tens of thousands had already died. Not until the following year, 1968, would the number deployed peak, at 536,000 — the same year, not coincidentally, when student resistance to the draft would also gather momentum, touching even the tranquil, remote campus of Washington & Lee. Even now, the year of my 50th college reunion, Vietnam is palpable for me — as much as a part of my memory of the Shenandoah Valley’s verdant landscape as the sweet scent of dogwood, redbud and shad blossom. Vietnam colored everything, the one common determinant for whatever paths our lives were about to take. While today’s college graduates may worry about job prospects, 1967 graduates worried about being drafted and dying in a hot, damp, jungle-green landscape half a world away. In response, many of us, myself included, chose to drown out those worries. Sips of beer turned into gulps, and what had once been ordinary Saturday night dates at nearby girls’ colleges (Hollins, Sweet Briar, Mary Baldwin, Randolph-Macon) took on qualities of true, tragic love, a Shenandoah rendering of the “Liebestod” in “Tristan und Isolde.” For a romantic graduation gift, one of those girls gave me a copy of the British fighter pilot Richard Hillary’s classic memoir about the Battle of Britain, “The Last Enemy.” The book — “representative of the doomed youth of his generation,” in one critic’s words — I still have, but I never saw again the lost love who gave and inscribed it. Advertisement For those of my generation not fortunate enough to attend college, such tragic pretensions could seem self-indulgent, if not cowardly; they were already getting shot at slogging through rice paddies or under jungle canopies. We could see them on the nightly news in the fraternity basement; with the TV screen as if a mirror, they looked just like us, but short-haired. Did we feel guilty? No, I don’t think so. Just lucky. But now, with our college deferments expiring upon June graduation, our luck might well change. That meant, for most of us, a Selective Service classification of “1-A” — “immediately available for unrestricted military service.” Like the proverbial hangman’s noose, the prospective 1-A classification concentrated the mind. Certainly, it altered behavior. Classmates who hated school suddenly found themselves applying for jobs as high school teachers so they could be classified 2-A — meaning “registrant deferred because of essential civilian non-agricultural occupation.” For one hard-drinking member of the campus’s most Dionysian fraternity, a late-night, draft-induced epiphany revealed his pious destiny as “a divinity student attending an accredited theological or divinity school to be prepared for the ministry.” That would be a 2-D classification. At a small, largely conservative Southern college named after two legendary generals, where Herbert Marcuse or other “radicals” were on few undergraduate reading lists, my memory of the angst created by Vietnam that spring of 1967 was its very personal, not political, nature. “What am I going to do about the draft?” Not: “What is the strategic wisdom of American military intervention in a small, faraway Asian country?” Vietnam was simply a fact of life in the adult world we were about to enter. I remember only whispers of antiwar sentiment in the form of occasional leaflets scattered along the college’s 19th-century colonnade, competing with posters for spring dances featuring Motown groups like the Marvelettes. It was a mystery where the antiwar leaflets came from, but probably — my frat brothers hypothesized — the propagandist handiwork of “pinkos” and “NuFus” (the latter being the derogatory term for the less than 10 percent of students who had not joined a fraternity). Curiously, the most vocally antiwar student I knew was a V.M.I. cadet who “got away with it” because he was both a jock and future Rhodes scholar. Conscription, not patriotism, encouraged many of us to take control of our own fate by volunteering. The calculus was simple: Better to be an officer than a grunt; better to be at sea than in the jungle. So it was that a disproportionate number of my classmates would soon be at Naval Officer Candidate School in Newport, R.I. Indeed, according to one Pentagon study, as many as two-fifths of Vietnam-era officers would not have entered the military if not for the draft as motivator. To sign up for officer school, however, required maturity and forward thinking that not all of us possessed. Unless you were a business major or pre-med, your time horizon was typically limited to next weekend’s date or a research paper due the following week. The paperwork for officer school — as well as for National Guard or Reserves — took months to process. By spring it was too late. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. To flunk what was called the “pre-induction physical” was the last resort. Easier was finding a friendly civilian doctor to declare you medically unfit to serve. That classification would make you 4-F. But no one I knew wanted the draft-dodging stigma that 4-F might bring, although it apparently did not bother the future President Trump. His family doctor vowed that one of his heels (he can’t remember which) had bone spurs. Advertisement Indeed, how people in my generation responded to the draft would subsequently seem like an X-ray into their character. Take the baby boomers who, like Mr. Trump, became the nation’s leaders: Bill Clinton equivocated enough to avoid service. George W. Bush served in the National Guard. Al Gore became an Army enlisted man in Vietnam. John Kerry was a naval officer in Vietnam. Dick Cheney, explaining his multiple deferments, said he “had other priorities.” Given the military’s manpower needs, an honorable and honest calculation meant that if you didn’t serve, someone else would have to go in your place. But I don’t remember being touched by any such moral imperative when, in cap and gown at graduation ceremonies, I knew that just a few days later my local draft board would surely reclassify me as 1-A. Rather than feeling noble, patriotic, brave or even frightened, I recall feeling, most of all, simply curious. What would happen next? What was the Army really like? And war? What truths would I discover, unknown in ordinary life? Vietnam as my “Iliad”? Still, I was in no hurry to go, and somehow cajoled the draft board to postpone my call-up until autumn. Sept. 26: That would be the date of my induction, a date seared into my consciousness that summer of wild nights and too-brief days, a date that now in old age I remember more readily than other, seemingly more important dates, like wedding anniversaries and children’s birthdays. And I also vividly remember this: “Private Nicklin!” screamed the drill sergeant, so close I could feel his breath in my face. It was my first day of basic training at Fort Jackson, S.C., in a platoon that couldn’t have been more diverse, a cross section of the United States, from Appalachian moonshiners to Bronx bad boys who had never been out of the city. “Yes, sergeant!” I had already learned this was how I should reply. “I understand you went to college.” “Yes, sergeant!” “Well, you must not be too goddamn smart, or you wouldn’t be here!” “Yes, sergeant!” Walter Nicklin, a journalist, served in the Army in Europe during the Vietnam War. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.