THE NEW YORK TIMES likes to proclaim its supremacy over all competitors in all categories. But it’s barely on the scoreboards in the journalistically fashionable realm of “fact-checking.” Newsrooms across the continents have been building rapid-response reporting teams to evaluate the statements of political figures and assert whether they’re telling the truth. Turkey barely has a democracy, but it has a fact-checking site. Argentina has one that has helped seed others across Latin America. So do parts of Eastern Europe and Africa. Even some journalists in war-ravaged Syria started one. In the United States they’re everywhere, most of them attached to larger media organizations. But one is only just now arriving at The Times, and so far it has one employee. Her name is Linda Qiu. She’s 24 years old, and she has a reputation for searching out pertinent facts with the skill and speed of a greyhound. Three months into the job, Qiu is turning out two to three pieces a week, analyzing everything from President Trump’s claim that he only recently met his senior adviser, Stephen Bannon, to an assessment of every accomplishment the president claims to have made in his first 100 days in office. “Ideally, The Times would have two or three people, but for now it’s me,” said Qiu without exasperation. Most media sites routinely assess the accuracy of political statements in the course of their reporting. Fact-checking teams are different. These researchers select significant political claims and set out to determine their veracity by combing through old news stories, speeches, past interviews, scientific and medical data, expert opinions, anything that could help distill fact from opinion. After that, the statements get rated, from the truthful to the ridiculous. The aim is to choke off misinformation so it doesn’t enter the public discourse with the same force that it might have, and — ideally anyway — to act as a prophylactic that scares loose-tongued lawmakers out of making false claims. Usually packaged in colorful, easy-to-read graphics, fact checks have become wildly popular, thanks in part to last year’s election (and this year’s president). PolitiFact, the pacesetter and winner of a Pulitzer Prize for its work, had three times the traffic last year as it did the previous year and double what it had in the 2012 election. FactCheck.org, another big player, produced a video on a presidential debate last year that has drawn some 2.7 million views on Facebook. And NPR, a relatively new player, drew significant attention for its live annotations of last year’s presidential debates. Research is starting to accumulate about whether or not readers are swayed by fact checks, but it’s unquestionable that the public is reading them. When they do their job well, fact checkers produce passionless, straightforward assessments, with no evidence of ideological leaning. Though Trump’s improvisational approach to the truth has broken all records, fact checkers have found most politicians will bend the truth if it helps them make a point. Harry Reid, the newly retired Senate Democratic leader, had the worst truth-telling record among Democrats, according to PolitiFact. Representative Maxine Waters, a Democrat from California, earned a “Pants on fire” rating after saying recently that she never called for Trump’s impeachment. (She has raised the possibility more than any other member of Congress, the site concluded.) Angie Drobnic Holan, editor of PolitiFact, says the organization has a staff of 10 and a database of 13,000 fact checks. With the help of partners nationwide, it produces three to five posts a day. Recently, the site started working with Facebook to fact-check stories in its news feed that readers flag as potentially bogus. There’s little room for sloppiness if you’re calling yourself a “fact checker,” so the system is designed to avoid disasters. After a reporter researches and writes a finding, a team of three editors reviews it and determines the rating, anywhere from a “true” to “Pants on fire.” No system is infallible, though. Two or three times a year, PolitiFact learns new information that causes it to significantly change its rating. “Sometimes there’s a train wreck that I try to block out of my mind,” said Holan. The Washington Post (my alma mater) started its Fact Checker two presidential cycles ago. Today, there are two people fact-checking and a third coming on board to turn fact checks into video. They also produce fact checks that they publish on Snapchat. Like elsewhere, traffic is skyrocketing. The biggest month was in January, when there was double the volume of any previous month. Glenn Kessler, editor of the operation, says there’s a real benefit to having a dedicated team checking the proclamations of the powerful. “If you do nothing but this, day in and day out, you build a memory bank of expertise with a database to rely on,” he said. That’s part of the problem as The Times begins to turn over its engines. At its current rate of 2.5 posts a week, it would take 19 years to match the size of The Post’s database, and 100 years to catch up to PolitiFact. Records of long-retired politicians may not seem worth much, but they can be an important historical tool — and a sandbox of fun for political junkies. The Times isn’t coming at it completely cold. During the election it assembled a team of political writers and subject-area experts to fact-check candidate debates and big speeches. On some days it was among the most popular features. But culturally, editors were slow to recognize that readers wanted someone to pierce the political rhetoric of the day and dissect the provenance of claims. They wanted blunt assertions of truth or fiction — and proof as to why — more than they seemed to want traditional “news analyses” that sometimes read like a morass of context and nuance. Carolyn Ryan, a masthead editor who has been pushing internally for a fact-checking unit for some time, hired Qiu from PolitiFact as an initial step toward staffing a fuller team. Finding an editor is next, and work is underway to give its fact checks more graphic appeal. “Our readers have shown us that they want real-time fact-checking, and they respond very powerfully to it,” Ryan said. “We need to build it out, and make it more prominent on our website and easier to find.” With the vast resources of The Times, it’s hard to understand its slow entry onto the track, but good for readers that it’s arrived. For all the droll Pinocchio noses and flaming-pants icons, these fact-check operations perform a significant public service, arguably as important to political accountability as any journalistic invention of the past decade. And if truth matters, as Times ads repeatedly proclaim, it’s worth building a team to ensure it.