The Chinese know that one of the best ways to curry favor with any ruler is to shower riches on his family members. There are so many millionaires among the children of its leaders that they have a moniker: the Princelings. This uniquely Chinese brand of influence peddling is now being lavished on President Trump’s Princelings and Princesslings. Suddenly, all kinds of business opportunities have opened up for Trump family members in the notoriously closed Chinese market. Over the weekend, there was the unseemly spectacle of Jared Kushner’s sister, Nicole Meyer, hawking golden visas to connected Chinese investors if they would put $500,000 into one of the Kushners’ real estate projects in Jersey City. Ms. Meyer made her pitch just hours after Mr. Trump signed a measure renewing the visa program. As a real estate mogul himself, Mr. Trump was frustrated in his many efforts to break into China. In March, 38 trademarks for various Trump projects were granted preliminary approval after a decade of denials. The Trump Organization is being run by his sons Donald Jr. and Eric, in their father’s absence. On the very day Ivanka Trump and Mr. Kushner, her husband, flanked President Xi Jinping of China at a dinner at Mar-a-Lago last month, there was a surprise as tasty as the dry-aged steak on the menu: China approved her company’s request to sell handbags, jewelry and spa services in China. Then there was the favorable $4 billion proposed deal between the Kushner Companies and a Chinese insurance conglomerate tied to the family of a past Communist ruler, Deng Xiaoping. But after The New York Times published an article on the cozy deal and Democrats talked of filing an ethics complaint, the plan to jointly redevelop a Fifth Avenue skyscraper was called off. But the Kushners clearly haven’t given up on other China business. Since I began covering the corrupting influence of money on politics 30 years ago, profiteering by family members of the president has invited scandal. One of George H. W. Bush’s sons, Neil Bush, was tied to Silverado, a collapsed savings and loan association. Tony Rodham tried his own visa gambit when his sister, Hillary Rodham Clinton, was secretary of state. Before my time as a reporter, the brothers of Presidents Nixon and Carter were involved in politically tainted financial schemes. But the oligarchy emerging on Pennsylvania Avenue today is something not seen before. The president, Ivanka Trump and her husband are the three most powerful figures in the White House, and they still profit from companies with billions at stake in global real estate deals. Their family enterprises are seeking private favors from China, the second most powerful economy in the world. This is the country that is our biggest rival in the Pacific, one that the president himself says has hurt American workers. Then he mimics its infamous Princeling culture. This isn’t the petty Washington corruption of lobbying favors or excess campaign donations. It is far more unseemly and dangerous to democracy. Kathleen Clark, a professor of ethics at Washington University in St. Louis, told NPR, “when Donald Trump is dealing with the Chinese government on behalf of the United States, he may also be thinking about what the Chinese government can do not just for the U.S. but for Donald Trump and his businesses and his own financial well-being.” President Trump, his daughter and Mr. Kushner have all said that they have stepped away from their businesses. Ms. Trump has transferred her brand’s assets into a trust overseen by her brother-in-law, Josh Kushner, and sister-in-law, Ms. Meyer. These businesses carry on without them and bear their very powerful names. Meanwhile, the legal arrangements to keep them at arm’s length from those businesses remain opaque. Various ethics lawyers charge that the Trumps are violating the Foreign Emoluments Clause of the Constitution, which forbids any “person holding any Office of Profit or Trust under the United States” from accepting “any present, Emolument, Office, or Title, of any kind whatever, from any King, Prince or foreign State” — unless Congress explicitly consents. Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a progressive government watchdog organization, has filed a lawsuit asserting that the president is receiving illegal payments from foreign governments through his companies. In an interview with The Washington Post, Eric Trump said, “There are lines that we would never cross, and that’s mixing business with anything government.” The president himself, after pledging to “drain the swamp” during the campaign, has done little on the ethics front other than cancel ethics training for White House personnel and threaten to defang the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The White House should remember the scandal that shook China only a few years ago. Former Prime Minister Wen Jiabao was disgraced after a New York Times report showed how his family members accumulated more than $2.7 billion, including large investments in precious stones. (His wife was known as “the Diamond Queen.”) Before Xi Jinping became president, Bloomberg News revealed that his relatives were worth more than $100 million. China’s response to disclosures about the Princelings was to block the Chinese websites of The Times and Bloomberg. At the recent Shanghai event for the Kushners’ New Jersey project, a reporter from The Washington Post was asked to leave. One of the organizers grabbed a reporter’s notebook and backpack, according to The Post. Part of why Donald Trump won is that voters had extreme fatigue about the Clinton family’s ethical problems. His promise to end big-money corruption in Washington was taken seriously by his base. He could put his electoral future at risk by reneging on it.