In March, when House Speaker Paul Ryan and his fellow Republicans threatened to repeal the Affordable Care Act, I pulled a pussyhat over my infant son’s bald head, fetched my 6-year-old daughter from school and raced to a pop-up protest at the Capitol. The sign I’d quickly made wasn’t artful, but it was sincere: “I am a postpartum R.N. This bill is bad for mamas and babies. Vote no!” A few hours later, when Mr. Ryan had to pull that bill, I drove my kids home tentatively optimistic that other mothers and children might avoid the harms this draconian legislation would have inflicted. I later recycled the sign into a polar bear for the People’s Climate March. I guess I should have kept the original. On Thursday, when the House passed the American Health Care Act, the long list of those endangered by Republican ideologues and an unprincipled administration expanded to include women and babies like those I’ve cared for as a nurse in a busy hospital in Northern Virginia. Among the 2,000 mothers and newborns I’ve worked with in the past two years, I’ve been thinking this week of one woman whose plump baby boy arrived with a shock of brown hair and his mother’s doe eyes. Having had an uncomplicated pregnancy and delivery, she was effortfully cheerful and seemed impatient to be back home, where two energetic young sons were waiting. But as I did the usual discharge instructions, warning her of the signs of postpartum depression and the importance of support from family and friends, she started to cry. A few questions revealed that the man who was coming to the hospital to take her and her baby home had been physically abusing her. Our team rapidly mobilized, the police were called, the mom and newborn were moved to another unit for their protection, and the two young sons were placed in the care of the patient’s mother until she could be discharged safely home. That very night the baby seized and was admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit. Imaging revealed a brain bleed, possibly the result of a beating his mother suffered while pregnant. Prenatal visits and childbirth hospitalization are often the primary opportunity for screening women and intervening to prevent the tragic outcomes of abuse. Under the Obama administration’s Affordable Care Act, imperfect as it was, insurers had to provide a basic set of benefits, maternity care among them. The new House bill, which lets state governments waive such essential coverage, threatens the small but significant gains made for vulnerable women in the years since Obamacare became law. According to Kaiser Family Foundation research, women’s health coverage levels have now reached an all-time high, and the share of women who forestall or avoid getting health care because of the expense has declined. Prenatal care and contraceptive use are up, and unintended pregnancies have plummeted. Another patient I’ve been thinking of lately was a reflexively warm, financially strapped young woman closing in on her social work degree. After a routine prenatal check suggested her fetus was constricted in her womb, she delivered her daughter at 36 weeks. The girl was tiny with doll-like features, but healthy and ready to grow — so her mom could concentrate on getting the baby to latch to her breast instead of worrying about a lifetime of developmental deficits. Nearly every day at a hospital there are reminders of how crucial decent maternity care is. When maternal risk factors like sexually transmitted infections, gestational diabetes, pregnancy-induced hypertension, placental abnormalities, domestic violence and substance abuse aren’t identified, catastrophic outcomes may follow, including long-term disability and death. Studies repeatedly show a higher rate of maternal mortality and neonatal death among women who receive late, inadequate or no prenatal care. What public health studies seldom demonstrate is that lower taxes for the rich and less care improve the general citizenry’s well-being. When I graduated from nursing school in 2014, the Affordable Care Act had made it easier than in earlier years for pregnant women to enroll in Medicaid. So it was almost a matter of course that lower-income women in my community received not only maternity care but also ongoing preventive services including family planning, in the name of healthier pregnancies and healthier families. Access to family planning and contraception prevents pregnancies in quick succession, and the attendant risks of premature birth and low birth weight — outcomes that often come with staggering costs. In a cruel paradox, by defunding Planned Parenthood, the new health care bill would increase Medicaid births at the same time that it grossly underfunds Medicaid. This belies any understanding of maternal-child health and its long-term social implications. The months before and after birth are a critical but ephemeral time in human development. Benefits to babies in that period may resonate for decades, as will any ill effects suffered — which is to say, the well-being of mothers and babies is intrinsically linked to the future health of America as a whole. That’s a link this health care bill is blind to. As I watched gleeful Republicans in the Rose Garden last Thursday, I was bemused by the contrast between Mr. Ryan’s stated concern for vulnerable people and the obvious disregard his health care bill shows for them. But the speaker did say one thing I agreed with: “The issues are just too important, the stakes are just too high.” And that’s especially true for women and infants if Trumpcare becomes law. To keep melancholy at bay, I try to remind myself that an earlier, better Congress directed the Institutes of Medicine to study inequalities in American health care in the first place. The idea that Republicans in this Congress might be punished for their health care vote in coming elections provides less consolation, because should this law pass, the damage done in the interim to some mothers and babies will be permanent. Every time I stand in a nursery full of newborns in knit caps, crib cards bearing surnames of every possible origin, I long for the country of their birth to better reflect our democratic value of justice for all. We’re going to need a lot more signs.