On Thursday, The Times editorial board published an open letter to Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who wrote the memo that President Trump cited in firing James Comey, the former F.B.I. director. It urged Mr. Rosenstein to appoint a special counsel to investigate the Trump campaign’s ties with Russia. In response, readers offered their own advice in the comments of the editorial. Below is a selection of letters, edited for clarity and brevity. Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein, I would rather have you inside than out. I would rather have you speak up and be fired than to acquiesce. I expect you to bring all your experience to bear on our current troubling problems and do that which is right according to constitution and law. Fran Murphy Dear Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein: Wrong is wrong, and who is president and which political party is in office should have nothing to do with your decision. Russia’s role in our elections needs to be thoroughly investigated by independent people with integrity. Some believe that President Trump’s efforts to stonewall the investigation only heighten suspicions that he is directly involved and that his links to Russia are more damaging than we know. Perhaps President Trump is innocent, as he maintains, but only a credible investigation can clear the air and restore confidence in this government’s commitment to justice, truth and accountability. PB Dear Mr. Rosenstein: I write as the spouse of a whistle-blower and a whistle-blower myself. I won’t go into the details, but suffice it to say we each observed unethical colleague behavior, involving vulnerable students and the welfare of future students. In each case, we made the decisions together, discussing the issues, the ethical/legal concerns and the potential for blowback and professional harm. We did everything we could to rectify situations and to try and ensure that our concerns were taken to the highest levels we could access. In each case, we paid a price. My husband paid the highest price, though in the end there was a substantial financial settlement (after spending tens of thousands of our own money for legal assistance). Many in high places who refused to behave proactively (to protect students) ultimately lost their jobs — for putting institutional concerns before the welfare of students. We suffered. It was very painful. But [we] rest easily, knowing that we did the right thing. You are now in such a position. I hope and pray you come to the right decision. For the good of the country. Even if it causes you to lose your job or spend time, effort and money for legal assistance. Remember: “Evil flourishes when good men do nothing.” TheraP Mr. Rosenstein, You remember the justifications given for why we needed Ken Starr to be appointed as a special prosecutor to examine Bill Clinton’s sex life. Our democracy and its viability is under one of the gravest threats it has ever faced. How can anyone in Washington, remembering the many and varied Clinton family witch hunts, now turn their back on a foreign power threatening our democracy and the obvious nepotistic kleptocracy that puts our nation in peril. Don’t let this malignant narcissist wag the dog and drag our young women and men into his killing fields. Appoint a special prosecutor now. ML Sir, Just as many of us have, you took an oath to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States of America. Every one of your colleagues in government (senators, congressmen, etc.) swore that very same oath. Unfortunately many that swore that oath (including Mitch McConnell, Paul Ryan, etc.) are reneging on it in favor of partisan politics, in spite of the ultimate cost. Many of my brothers in arms swore that oath and backed it up with the ultimate sacrifice. They did not renege. Please do not lose sight, as others have, of your promise. Your promise is to protect the American way of life. Your promise is NOT to protect one man from himself. That only a good psychiatrist can do, and you, sir, are not a psychiatrist. We pray for you. aviat0r Mr. Rosenstein, Think about your future, or perhaps even your present. And ask yourself: Do you want to lie awake in bed at night racked with guilt, incessantly rehashing the past? Do you want to look in the mirror in the morning with a clear conscience? Names like Elliot Richardson and William Ruckelshaus may not be in history books or crossword puzzles, but that doesn’t diminish the significance or impact their selfless bravado had on our nation. It’s simple: Which side of history do you want to be on? Greg