Welcome to “Ask a Feminist,” a one-off feature in which male-run (but suuuupper progressive) startups, ad agencies committed to #disruptingdiversity and corporations looking to “tap the female influencer market” can find out once and for all, “How feminist are we?” Dear Ask a Feminist, How many times have you been in the shower, gripping a bottle of body wash in your hand, only to break down in tears on the cold porcelain due to patriarchal soap size standards? Us too. Which is why we’ve created a new line of body wash containers custom-sized to your real body. Yes, we paid an advertising agency to create what are essentially glorified Honey Bear bottles full of soap so that the next time you wander into your local pharmacy, looking for an ointment for that pesky rash, you can also face the existential question, “Am I more of a pear or a grapefruit shape?” That’s feminist, right? Dove Dear Dove, This isn’t what “the personal is political” means. Ask a Feminist Dear A.A.F., I am a SHE-E.O. That’s like a C.E.O., but female. What’s the difference between a SHE-E.O. and a C.E.O.? Well. I employ only entrefemmeurs and momtrapreneurs, for one. I have boobs, for two. How did I become a SHE-E.O.? I began as a young girlboss, obviously, performing all of the duties of a regular boss but clad from head to toe in millennial pink. Now I am building a fempire. I just wanted to make sure: Is that feminist? Sarah Dear Sarah, Def not. But thanks for asking, I guess. Ask a Feminist Dear A.A.F., At the #FindYourInnerGoddess conference for women, sponsored by Botox, we believe that magic happens when women come together in an inspiring beachside resort. This is why we’ve put together a two-day, $7,895, highly curated program of empowering content, featuring 12 celebrities who have nothing to do with women’s rights and Kendall Jenner. We’ll wake up with morning vaginal steaming, gather at lunch for a workshop on taking selfies from the #femalegaze, and close out the day ideating on all the different words we can use to talk about feminism without actually using the word feminism (authentic living! Finding our center! Personal authority!). Gift bags include Sweet Green gift cards, a build-your-own-terrarium kit, be KIND to other women bars, and those period panties everyone is talking about. We’re pretty sure we’re slaying the feminism game. Do you agree? Taryn Dear Taryn, I’m literally LOLing right now. A.A.F. Dear A.A.F., We are Coterie, a meeting-space-slash-community-slash-coven-slash-21st-century-#girlgang. We bring together female creators, makers, influencers, thought leaders, changemakers and extraordinarily photogenic white women to hatch plans and take names, while nourishing their inner creativity with plant-infused matcha suppositories. We offer crazy-inspiring content like “Orgasmic Meditation 101,” “How to Harvest a Crystal Garden” and “Building Dream Catchers” and we believe that women can literally accomplish whatever they want as long as they pay our membership fee. (Except, you know, getting an abortion, being president or making an equal wage.) Is that feminist? Coterie Dear Coterie, As crazy-inspiring as your content sounds, I’m going to go with no. A.A.F. Dear A.A.F., We are an advertising agency that believes in fempowerment. Did you know that women hold the majority of consumer spending power in this country? They do. Which is why we’re so proud of the powerful new campaign we’ve produced. It features a bronze statue of a defiant young woman seated in a cubicle in deep concentration while her older male boss creepily hovers over her. She gets through the day without crying or being sexually assaulted. We call her #FearlessGirl. The concept was produced by a creative team that is 100 percent male (one of the guys is gay). Yas kween! Is that feminist? Josh Dear Josh, Where do I begin. No. A.A.F. Dear A.A.F., We are a Silicon Valley tech company that is working to disrupt the diversity space. As part of our new initiative to #SwipeRightOnWomensRights, we are offering unconscious bias training for all employees, padded rooms for mixed-gender trust falls and a matching service to help mentors “hook up” with junior colleagues. Our white male founder has never been convicted of sexual assault, though he’s been accused twice. Are we feminist? Chad Dear Chad, Asd;lghadfs;hkl;lsdkhga;lshdfgk (that’s me slamming my head against the keyboard). A.A.F. Dear A.A.F., My Twitter bio tells you everything you need to know about me: Mother. Sister. Daughter. Devoted wife to a millionaire real estate developer.White House adviser. Entrepreneur. Passionate believer in supporting working women and embracing the fact that our lives are multidimensional, multifaceted and multipurpose. None of my 11 nannies have health insurance, but I still believe they can have it all. Check out my insta-stories — they’re super-empowering. Is that feminist? Ivanka Dear Ivanka, Please opt out. A.A.F.