President Trump’s unconscionable decision to fire the director of the F.B.I. in the middle of his investigation of the Trump team’s tangled web of Kremlin dealings prompted calls for the deputy attorney general to appoint an independent prosecutor. The Russia inquiry should certainly continue. But the deputy, Rod Rosenstein, may be the last person — besides Trump himself or Attorney General Jeff Sessions — who should appoint a prosecutor to lead it. And the need for independent investigation has moved far beyond the Russia connection, right into the heart of the unfolding ethical and constitutional disaster that is the Trump administration. Trump’s firing of James Comey as F.B.I. director seems at this early stage like a huge abuse of executive power aimed at derailing an investigation that was coming too close to the White House. And the question of whether the Trump campaign colluded with the Russians to defeat Clinton is now inextricably snarled up with the firing of Comey. In its frantic efforts at damage control following that firing, the administration has attempted to put the blame on Rosenstein, who supposedly considered resigning over being singled out as the fall guy. (He should have quit, if he was not part of the plot.) But the White House’s claim that Trump acted only after Rosenstein came up with idea of firing the F.B.I. director all by himself was transparent nonsense from the start. Comey’s comments about the Clinton email investigation have been a matter of public debate for a year. What changed was Comey’s request for more resources to step up his investigation. And Trump himself admitted today in an interview with Lester Holt that he had decided to fire Comey “regardless of recommendation.” The Washington Post reported on Wednesday that Trump spent the weekend fuming over Comey’s most recent congressional testimony about the Russia investigation. On Monday, The Post reported, he summoned Sessions and Rosenstein to the White House and told them to provide him with a written case for getting rid of Comey. Rosenstein obliged, with a shallow, poorly reasoned memo that relied heavily on op-ed columns written by former federal prosecutors and read like the manifestoes created by President George W. Bush’s legal team to justify torture, warrantless wiretapping and other illegal activity. About the only artful thing in that memo was the way Rosenstein managed to imply that Comey should be fired without actually saying so. Sessions, who is supposed to have recused himself from anything to do with the Russia investigation, was the one who said it directly in his own letter to Trump. Any prosecutor worthy of the public trust is going to call both Sessions and Rosenstein to testify about their meeting with the president, which has since been reported by other news organizations. Among the hundreds of questions that need to be asked are these: Did Rosenstein tell Sessions (despite his supposed recusal on the Kremlin Kaper) about Comey’s request for more investigative resources on Russia? Did either of them tell Trump? Rosenstein was either a witness to or a participant in the decision to fire Comey and cover up the true reason with the laughable claim that Comey was being dismissed because of his handling of Hillary Clinton’s emails. For him to appoint the prosecutor would make an even greater mockery of the justice system and the balance of powers than Trump has managed to create on his own. Senator Charles Schumer of New York was right when he said that the Russia prosecutor should be appointed by the Justice Department’s senior career official, not Rosenstein. Moreover, the Russia investigation should be part of a larger inquiry into the firing of Comey. So far, most of the Republicans in Congress are standing with Trump. Trump’s loyal toady, Senator Mitch McConnell, has ruled out an independent investigation of the Russia connection, never mind these latest events. Schumer and the other Democrats in Congress will, I hope, keep up the pressure. At this point, the firing of James Comey certainly looks like it’s heating up to be a scandal of Watergate dimensions.