Two Sundays ago, The Times introduced a feature in the Sunday Review that has raised a number of eyebrows: a regular column that says something nice about President Trump. The columnist, Michael Kinsley, most notably of “Crossfire” fame, explained that The Times was “looking for a few positive words about the president, and we’re asking for your help.” Kinsley prompted readers to write to somethingnice@nytimes.com, and noted: This is not about Trump the family man. It’s not another forum for debating the issues. It is a place to point out positive things Mr. Trump has said or done from the viewpoint of The New York Times and its readers. One good thing Trump “has done for the country,” Kinsley claimed in the debut column, has been to allow the average citizen “a view straight into the president’s id,” through his personal Twitter feed. In his second column, Kinsley pointed to Trump’s decision to skip “one of the most repulsive social events in Washington,” the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner. Responses started coming in after the column’s debut and continued this week. Many readers wondered if The Times had ever solicited positive words about any other prominent figure for publication. Others said the column gave the impression that the paper is cozying up to a president who has called the press “the enemy of the American people.” The column reads as if The Times is attempting to curry favor with the administration by printing puff pieces glamorizing him or his opponents. This isn’t journalism. While I understand that the column runs in the Opinion section, I would argue that a regular feature with a specific, stated intent of saying something positive about our political leader has no place in a mainstream newspaper. When the man does something good, cover it as news. When he does something bad, cover it as news. Please reconsider this column. It cheapens the paper and leads readers like me to question your news reporting. Jesse Vincent, Oakland, Calif. A Times spokeswoman, Danielle Rhoades-Ha, explained that currying favor with Trump is far from the column’s aim. This feature is media criticism and satire by the veteran journalist and commentator Michael Kinsley. He is assessing the president and the mainstream media’s coverage of the administration for the Times Opinion pages. The first installment of the column outlines the media criticism aspect of the column more fully. It is entirely separate from our newsroom coverage. The public editor’s take: If this fell more into the category of press criticism, I’d buy into the idea. Only that’s not how it reads to me. I can’t tell if the column is tongue-in-cheek or a serious effort to balance out the negative with a little positive. Right now, it seems perched in the middle, precariously. I think the readers we’ve heard from, and the discussion on social media, raise good questions about why there’s a platform dedicated to patting a president on the back. Advertisement One not nice thing that happened last weekend was an oil spill in New York’s East River after more than 30,000 gallons of the synthetic mineral variety leaked from a Con Edison power transformer. According to a company spokesman, though the oil is “nontoxic,” it can harm fish and birds and cause skin and eye irritation in people. The only mention of the spill in The Times, though, was a link to a Gothamist story in the New York Today newsletter, with the line, “Con Edison spilled gallons of oil into the East River.” Several readers noted the missing coverage. It is surprising and disturbing that The New York Times has written nothing about Sunday’s oil spill into the East River. The only mention of this that I can find in The Times is the bullet leading to an article in Gothamist. The NY Post, on the other hand, had no problem writing about it. Would The New York Times, a paper I love so much, really suppress news of a powerful New York utility’s mistake? Sarah Sears, New York City We asked Wendell Jamieson, the Metro editor, why The Times didn’t cover the story. We looked into this and didn’t think it was something we needed to cover with our limited resources. It felt like a very modest story. The public editor’s take: As a resident of New York, I would like to know that over 30,000 gallons of oil spilled into the East River. It wasn’t crude oil, but it has the potential for environmental damage. It was spread over five miles and delayed ferry and subway service. I understand the Metro section can’t cover every fire and shooting in the city. But this oil spill seemed of more interest than that. The New York Post thought so, and so did The Daily News and three local TV stations. At minimum, it would have been helpful to readers to publish a wire story, if there was no one available on staff. Last week, The Times published a letter in response to a column that praised charter schools. The letter writer, Annette Marcus, who is described as a retired science teacher, wrote, “Charter schools such as the Success Academy network in New York City expel students whose behavior does not meet school standards.” The founder and chief executive of the network was unhappy both with the claim and with the description of Marcus. This is untrue. In fact, in 11 years of operation serving 14,000 students, Success has only expelled a child on a single occasion. The claim that we “expel” students plainly suggests that we do so regularly or at least on more than one occasion. An accurate statement would be “Success once expelled a student.” You also fail to disclose that the letter writer is a former Success employee. Given that former employees often have an ax to grind, this omission is a clear violation of ethical journalistic practices. Eva Moskowitz, New York City We asked Sue Mermelstein, a staff editor in the letters department, for a response. While Ms. Moskowitz may be right that only one student has technically been “expelled” by NYC standards, this article makes clear that Success schools have pressured several students to withdraw in what, at least to me, is tantamount to an expulsion (and the letter writer may have been using the term loosely). She is right that we should have ID’d the writer as a former Success teacher and would have done so had we known. The writer ID’d herself as a “retired science teacher.” Since Success is well known and has been so prominently in the news, it did not occur to me to ask whether she had a personal connection. When we send letter writers their edited letters, we include this question: “Do you have a professional affiliation, or any other connection (including financial), that bears on the topic of your letter or that our readers should know about?” We mostly rely on our letter writers to disclose any relevant connections, though we sometimes do some Googling on our own. The public editor’s take: In this case, a quick Google check would have revealed that the author once worked at Success. That doesn’t mean her point of view has no merit, but ideally, readers would be given the information to determine for themselves whether there’s a conflict.  Finally, a Travel piece on how to spend 36 hours in Thailand’s Golden Triangle recommended visiting an elephant camp, to the disappointment of one reader. Elephant camps are known for torturing animals. They are taken from their mothers at a very early age and starved, beaten and abused for weeks. Once trained, they live sad lives carting around tourists and often still getting beaten should they not behave. It’s a horribly cruel process. It deeply saddens me that The Times would promote an elephant camp of this nature. There are so many amazing elephant sanctuaries that could be promoted instead. These places take animals from horrible situations and give them a home where they don’t have to serve or obey commands. They are often deeply underfunded. Tourists can still go and spend time with the elephants, bathe them, walk with them and feed them without riding them. It’s the same wonderful experience being close to the animals without exploiting them. Megan Denniston, Brooklyn We raised Denniston’s concern with Monica Drake, the travel editor. I share your concern. In the column, we try to highlight hospitality companies that meet the bar of providing basic human rights for their workers and provide humane treatment of animals. The resort in question has a reputation of being an advocate for elephants in Thailand. Its director of elephants and conservation, John Roberts, is associated with Earthwatch and another foundation that advocates for fair treatment and sustainability. The writer of the piece, Donald Frazier, also replied, noting that the elephant camp’s reputation is “sterling.” I know quite a bit about this topic, and wholly agree about a large number of the elephant camps in the region. I’ve been to this one a few times, indeed a sanctuary. More of a village, it provides a complete ecosystem for the elephants and their mahouts [people who tend to elephants], with sustainable livelihood for their mahouts’ families with cottage industries such as silk spinning. I have seen it, and have had the run of the camp. The public editor’s take: Good to hear that the camp the Travel section wrote about appears to be reputable. It might have been useful to drop a sentence into the piece letting readers know of its quality and to beware generally. Advertisement If you happen to be in Thailand this weekend and are planning on visiting an elephant camp, we hope you heed Denniston’s concern. Each Friday, Evan Gershkovich, in the office of public editor Liz Spayd, surfaces some of the more thoughtful and provocative feedback that comes in — some of which is edited for clarity and length. To be featured here, email the public editor at public@nytimes.com. Follow the public editor on Twitter @spaydl.