WASHINGTON — Last month I spoke on a panel here, organized by the Historical Society of Washington, about how local authors like me use “place” in our work. The building where the panel was held — the Carnegie Library, a gleaming Beaux-Arts structure gifted to the city a century ago by the industrialist Andrew Carnegie — has become the latest sign of Washington’s gentrifying times: Apple recently released plans to convert the building, long a civic space, into a lavish retail store. The city itself — like the Carnegie Library — is getting a brand-new operating system. In the latest update, residents are whiter, richer, more plugged in. What does that mean for the sense of place here? Since the Civil War, the city has been a mecca, a beacon for black people like me, looking for freedom and opportunity. After nearly two decades of nonstop investment and influx of new residents (demographers say the city’s population is growing by 1,000 each month), we are trying to figure out who we are now. Black residents are still the city’s largest ethnic group, but newcomers are changing the culture drastically. What now defines Washington for the nearly 700,000 people who call the city home outside the shadow of the monuments, the Capitol and the White House? Are we a stark-white, sterile, oddly cheery, computer retail experience? The other day, as I walked out of my family’s Victorian rowhouse in the Bloomingdale neighborhood, I encountered a horde of people standing outside. They were wedged between a huge Dumpster and the 1895 rowhouse next door, where my former neighbor Ms. Maxine used to live, which is now being converted into luxury condos. They were listening to a lecture by a middle-aged blond woman on how to invest. I began discreetly chatting with a member of the crowd, who was standing with his foot planted on my garden retaining wall, when one of the organizers, a smartly dressed black woman, walked up to me. “Excuse me,” she said. “We are filming. Could you please walk around?” I gave her the nastiest glare I could muster. “I live here,” I spat out. The blond woman paused her presentation and put her a finger to her lips. “Shhhhhh,” she said. “She’s a neighbor,” the black woman said, and cupped a hand over her mouth, adding softly, “angry.” “Angry” is not the right word. More like disoriented. Thrown off balance. Recently, after a meeting downtown, I was walking near the old Washington Post headquarters, where I worked for years. The corner of 15th and L Streets in Northwest, an intersection I once knew well, had been reduced to rubble in preparation for yet another new development. I no longer knew right from left. I had to stop someone to ask for directions. The novelist Marita Golden, my fellow panelist at the Carnegie Library, has a new book, “The Wide Circumference of Love,” that has found the right metaphor for this disorientation: The mind of one of her characters is being consumed by Alzheimer’s as Washington is undergoing its transformation. When he walks onto the street at the corner of 14th and U and sees new high-rise condos and white people, he can’t tell whether his mind is playing tricks on him. Longtime white residents are also struggling to identify with the place. I have been running with a white friend, Lauryl, for more than a decade in a running club. She teaches high school English. She has had enough of recent changes in Washington, too, though she herself is a transplant from Los Angeles. She’s moving to New Orleans. “When I walk outside my house, these people don’t speak,” she says of the newcomers. It’s true. I have given up on trying to introduce pedestrians to my neighborhood’s friendly ways. More than half of them, it seems, are tourists renting Airbnbs. Change, of course, is the most organic thing about cities. Renewal and growth are exciting — they are why so many of us, my family included, put up with the many indignities and inconveniences of city life, living so close to our fellow humans. But change without respect for the past is pernicious. The stories about the lives here are the most precious resource we have. Those potential investors in front of my house are poorer for never having gotten the chance to meet Ms. Maxine, who grew up in that house, which her father bought with his wages as a Pullman porter. Or the previous owner of my house, Mrs. Alvarez, who raised eight children there, in addition to her rose bushes, which I still care for. Or all the other black women who raised their families, swept the sidewalk immaculate each day and served as the neighborhood watch. One day, we all get replaced by the next shiny thing. The Carnegie Library building will soon offer the latest phones and laptops. But our stories will never be obsolete. That’s what makes a city a place with a beating heart and not just a container for replaceable parts.