This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. I want to tell you a story this morning about two men from New Jersey. A few months ago, Tom Moran, a columnist for The Star-Ledger, went to Washington, D.C., to interview Representative Tom MacArthur, a Republican from his state. During their conversation, MacArthur explained why he was one of the renegade Republicans blocking his own party’s health care bill. “I want to be sure we don’t pull the rug out from 20 million people,” he said. “No American should lack insurance. And I’m not talking about access — I’m talking about insurance.” MacArthur then put the issue in deeply personal terms: His 11-year-old daughter, Gracie, had died from cancer 20 years ago. “She had over $1 million in medical bills,” he said. “So I know what this is like.” Moran, as it happens, had lost a son to cancer. The politician and the journalist lived in “the same circle of hell,” as Moran later wrote. After their conversation turned personal, MacArthur asked his aides to leave the room, and the two men sat alone talking about the unique horror of losing a child. Last week, MacArthur switched his position on the Republican health care bill, from opposition to support. Not only that, he wrote a provision that helped the bill win enough support to pass. Without Tom MacArthur, Trumpcare might not have passed in the House. Yet the bill would do precisely what MacArthur had previously vowed to to oppose. It would “pull the rug out from 20 million people,” leaving them without health insurance by cutting subsidies and shrinking Medicaid. It would also worsen the quality of other people’s insurance. The bill would then take the savings from these cuts and shower them on wealthy households. By now, you’ve probably read a fair amount of commentary about the bill. But I encourage you to take a few minutes and read Moran’s agonized column about MacArthur’s change of position. You may also want to read about the town hall meeting in MacArthur’s central New Jersey Wednesday night, which lasted almost five hours. Separately, if you’re looking for insight on the Trump/Comey/Russia mess, I recommend Andrew Rosenthal’s column and an editorial that spells out the connections, both in The Times, and Anne Appelbaum’s column in The Washington Post.