President Trump took a lot from us the day he fired James Comey, the F.B.I. director. He took our sense of security, our patience and any lingering hope that this administration might be fueled by anything more than a noxious mixture of impulse and revenge. But more than that, he took from us a hero, freshly anointed by the American public. And man, is that a bummer. The hero America needs right now isn’t Superman. It isn’t John Wayne or Bruce Wayne or even Wayne Newton. The hero America needs right now is a 56-year-old lawyer from Georgia named Sally Yates, a woman who coolly and competently testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee for three hours on Monday afternoon. And for an entire day, America had her. We watched as Ms. Yates faced off against an endless series of patronizing men, cheering and high-fiving our TVs as she swiftly laid waste to each and every one of them. Her straightforward resolve and understated agility made her seem more like a ninja than a career attorney. Sally Yates wasn’t clad in a mask or a cape; she was wearing simple earrings and a colored blazer falling somewhere on the spectrum between plum and eggplant. (Maybe an off-boysenberry or a dark mauve?) We built her up that day and laid offerings at her feet in the night. But on Tuesday evening, all thoughts of our new deity had been eclipsed by the news that Donald Trump had straight-up kleptocrat-style fired Mr. Comey. What happened with Mr. Comey was no minor incident. It’s troubling and exasperating, and overall just not the best news for those of us who are into things like accountability and civil liberties. But it doesn’t need to negate the day we all fell in love with Sally Yates. Please, let’s not lose that little surge of hope we felt as we watched our new hero hurl shurikens at a ducking Ted Cruz. It’s not for nothing that Ms. Yates testified as a private citizen. She’d already gone the way of Mr. Comey, dismissed by the Trump administration after 10 thankless days in office. And while Mr. Trump can point his finger at half the White House and utter his trisyllabic catchphrase (apologies to the parts of the South where “you’re fired” is only two syllables), at least our democracy isn’t so far gone that he’s able to silence private citizens. At least we still have that. And hey, if we’re taking our little victories where we can get them, here’s one more: It wasn’t only women who heroized Sally Yates. The statues built in her honor, the offerings of firstborns, all that was done by men as well. Maybe that’s because we’re in the midst of a cultural shift, a time when surprise megahits like “Get Out” and “The Handmaid’s Tale” are reaching out and showing a generation of white men what it’s actually like to be the rest of us. Or maybe it’s because dudes love building statues and are generally indifferent to firstborns. Either way, the celebration of Sally Yates crossed gender lines, and that kind of unity means something. And darn it if this country doesn’t need something meaningful right now. We’re desperate to believe that there’s still some sort of order out there, that everything isn’t rigged against logic and sanity and competence. It’s like America has become one giant game of basketball where the rules don’t matter because there aren’t any athletes on the other team. There are only blundering T-Rexes, stomping and roaring and scratching up the court. And instead of learning to rebound, they’ve been relying on a single crude strategy: “What happens if we just keep eating the ball?” The Trump administration ate Mr. Comey’s ball, but Sally Yates got through with a layup. And that’s still a triumph, small as it may be. That’s still something we can pin a little hope on. Somehow, this has become about basketball and tyrannosaurs and ninjas when it should really just be about a woman. A lawyer from Georgia who gave us a three-hour reprieve from feeling scared and beaten down. A woman who spoke up and reassured us that the world hasn’t become unrecognizable just yet. A real American hero in a blazer. Which, come to think of it, could simply be called purple.