If the controversy over the firing of James Comey, the F.B.I. director, has done anything, it has confirmed my decision on Nov. 9 to leave the Republican Party after a lifetime as a loyal member. The Republican Party was once the party of small government, free trade, traditional values, principled foreign policy leadership and, most important of all, adherence to the Constitution. Republicans spent decades fulminating against activist judges like Earl Warren and activist politicians like Barack Obama, claiming they were undermining the founders’ vision of limited government. And then, the party sold its soul to the soulless charlatan who now occupies the Oval Office and makes a mockery of every one of the party’s principles. Republicans have turned away from this uncomfortable truth by telling themselves that Donald Trump is an imperfect but necessary vessel for their agenda. Sure, he’s clownish and boorish, but hey, he has appointed a great Supreme Court justice. (I had one conservative friend tell me that Neil Gorsuch’s appointment justified the entire Trump presidency.) Sure, he doesn’t believe in anything, but he will repeal Obamacare, cut taxes and increase the military budget. Isn’t it worth overlooking a few crazy tweets in return for this conservative policy nirvana? If that is all that Mr. Trump demanded, and if he actually delivered results, the answer might be yes. But the events of this week have made clear that the price of an accommodation with Mr. Trump is higher. Much, much higher. Like other conservatives, I care about tax cuts and military spending increases. But I care even more about the rule of law — the only thing that prevents our country from going the way of Venezuela, Russia or Zimbabwe. In office less than four months, Mr. Trump has already undermined the rule of law in myriad small ways. He allowed his daughter and son-in-law to work in the White House in arguable violation of an anti-nepotism statute. He did not divest himself of his business holdings and did not release his tax returns. His sons have continued pursuing deals with jillionaires closely linked to unsavory foreign regimes. He and his daughter have accepted valuable trademark protections from China. His son-in-law’s family sought to trade on their connections to sell American citizenship to rich Chinese. But all of that is inconsequential compared with the flagrant assault on the rule of law represented by the firing of the F.B.I. director. The initial cover story for this act was Mr. Comey’s improper conduct last year in publicly discussing the F.B.I. investigation of Hillary Clinton’s emails. But that masquerade crumbled when the deputy attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, who wrote a memo laying out legitimate concerns regarding Mr. Comey’s actions last year, contradicted the White House’s suggestion that he had initiated the firing. Mr. Trump now says he was determined to dismiss Mr. Comey before he received Mr. Rosenstein’s recommendation, rendering the initial White House explanation “inoperative.” Why did President Trump want to get rid of Mr. Comey? Numerous news outlets have described how furious he was about the F.B.I. investigation of Trump campaign ties to Russia. The president made clear his intent to shut down the investigation on Monday when he tweeted, “The Russia-Trump collusion story is a total hoax, when will this taxpayer funded charade end?” Far from shutting down the inquiry, Mr. Comey was expanding it, because he was “concerned,” according to The Wall Street Journal, “by information showing possible evidence of collusion.” He was fired, explained a White House spokeswoman, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, because “we want” this investigation “to come to its conclusion.” Mr. Trump himself now links his decision to fire Mr. Comey to his conviction that “this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made up story.” The president had previously tried to win from Mr. Comey a pledge of loyalty and assurances that he was not a target of the investigation — both actions that are, in and of themselves, unethical and improper. When Mr. Comey wouldn’t comply, he was canned. While the president has the authority to fire the F.B.I. director, to do so under these circumstances and for these reasons is a gross violation of the trust citizens place in the president to ensure that the laws “be faithfully executed.” If this is not a prima facie case of obstruction of justice — an impeachable offense — it’s hard to know what is. Republicans would understand this and say so if these actions were taken by President Hillary Clinton. But when it comes to President Trump, they have checked their principles at the Oval Office door. A few Republicans in Congress (about 40 out of 290) expressed concern or asked for an explanation of Mr. Comey’s firing. But only six have called for an independent investigation, and just one for a special counsel. The Republican leaders in both the House and the Senate supported Mr. Comey’s shameful dismissal. If this Republican stonewall holds, Mr. Trump may get away with the most egregious abuse of presidential power since Richard Nixon’s Saturday Night Massacre in 1973. In those days, too, most Republicans reflexively rushed to the president’s defense. But not all. Attorney General Elliot Richardson and Deputy Attorney General William Ruckelshaus resigned rather than fire the independent counsel, Archibald Cox. Six Republicans joined all 21 Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee to move articles of impeachment. Republican senators like Howard Baker were relentless in demanding, “What did the president know and when did he know it?” And when the end came in 1974, three Republicans — Senator Barry Goldwater, the Senate minority leader Hugh Scott and the House minority leader John Rhodes — went to the White House to tell Mr. Nixon he had lost the support of his party. Are there even three principled Republicans left who will put their devotion to the Republic above their fealty to the Republican Party? I fear the answer to that question.