When Education Secretary Betsy DeVos delivered a commencement address this week at Bethune-Cookman University, a historically black institution in Florida, she was greeted with a predictable chorus of boos. “One of the hallmarks of higher education, and of democracy, is the ability to converse with and learn from those with whom we disagree,” she said, lecturing the graduating seniors like a school principal in a John Hughes film. “While we will undoubtedly disagree at times, I hope we can do so respectfully. Let’s choose to hear each other out.” Of course, Ms. DeVos wasn’t there to hear out any criticism of her education policies. She was there to have students hear her out, on their graduation day. Free and open debate is indeed one of the hallmarks of democracy. But it’s not one of the hallmarks of commencement addresses. This is something I wish college administrators would get through their thick heads. Think of the mood on commencement day: Proud parents dressed up. Students clad in caps and gowns. After four complicated years, perhaps filled with dozens of financial aid forms, thousands of text messages and millions of defeats, victories, doubts and all-nighters — they are all finished. Today is, finally, a simple, happy day. It isn’t the day to sit and listen to a controversial commencement speaker ostensibly invited so that students can learn from someone with whom they disagree. To the contrary, a commencement speaker is basically just there to remind students and parents that they have invested in an important institution, and to give a few encouraging words for graduates heading off into an unknown future. A speaker’s words should be more wedding toast than TED Talk. The band should play “Pomp and Circumstance,” not its “new stuff.” And the speaker should be someone friendly, and say something reassuring. Graduation ceremonies are a time for symbolism, for happy and expected sounds. The key to a good commencement address is not insights or revelations, or even substantive communication. Politically liberal universities should not invite conservatives to deliver commencement addresses, any more than Liberty University or Hillsdale College would think of inviting Noam Chomsky or Rachel Maddow. There are hard calls, of course. Notre Dame invited President Barack Obama to speak in 2009. Many graduates were thrilled to hear the new president, but other students and alumni objected to having an abortion-rights president at a Catholic university. (I was involved as a consultant, helping Notre Dame’s top brass assess the scope of the controversy.) Still, Mr. Obama spoke and, despite some protest from the audience, the ceremony itself was joyful. Ms. DeVos was not received as well, but then, it is a more polarized time. She angered many alumni and supporters of historically black colleges this year when she said that they were pioneers of school choice, ignoring the fact that these institutions were established because of segregation. College administrators and invited speakers, especially those who have helped build the partisan society we live in, shouldn’t be sputtering mad when students object. Commencement speeches are ceremonial and symbolic. Nobody remembers a word of what most speakers say anyway. Their mere presence is usually the whole point. We mustn’t tolerate intolerance in this country. We ought to embrace dialogue and debate. But that doesn’t mean inviting disagreeable speakers to graduation parties. Quite the opposite.