Standing beside Secretary of State Rex Tillerson at the State Department on Wednesday, Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia gleefully mocked his American hosts. A reporter had just shouted a question: “Does the Comey firing cast a shadow over your talks?” Mr. Lavrov, feigning shock, replied, “Was he fired?” And then, “You’re kidding! You’re kidding.” As he turned to walk out of the ornate reception area, the minister fought a losing battle with the wolfish grin overtaking his face. Five thousand miles away in Sochi, Russia, President Vladimir V. Putin, in full ice hockey gear, cheerfully answered a similar query from an American reporter. “Your question looks very funny for me,” he said. “Don’t be angry with me. We had nothing to do with that.” Russia’s leaders have earned their moment of mirth. A campaign to undermine the legitimacy of the West’s democratic institutions and leaders has succeeded in the United States itself beyond anything they could have imagined. In nine months, the virus unleashed by Moscow has managed to sow doubt about the American electoral system; help defeat Hillary Clinton, the candidate Mr. Putin despised; bring down President Trump’s first national security adviser; prompt multiple counterintelligence investigations; and now, cause Mr. Trump to fire the man in charge of investigating him, further shredding his already self-tattered credibility. This success is all the sweeter because Mr. Trump, wittingly or not, has aided and abetted Russia’s efforts every step along the way. His repeated claims this fall that the election was rigged echoed and amplified propaganda spouted by the Russian networks RT and Sputnik. So, too, his widely debunked postelection allegations of widespread voter fraud. Mr. Trump’s actions also undermined the integrity of two of the three official investigations into Russian interference in the elections, while hindering the third. First, to vindicate Mr. Trump’s false claim that the Obama administration had tapped his phone, the White House concocted a sham show-and-tell with the House Intelligence Committee chairman, Devin Nunes. Mr. Nunes turned up in the West Wing to brief the president on information that had in fact been given to him in secret by the White House staff the day before. The resulting fiasco forced Mr. Nunes to recuse himself from leading the House investigation, while dealing a fatal blow to its credibility. Then, the dismissal of James Comey, the F.B.I. director, cast a shadow over the bureau’s inquiry. Mr. Trump’s initial rationale — Mr. Comey’s mishandling of the Clinton email investigation — immediately drowned in a pool of crocodile tears. After all, Mr. Trump had cheered on the F.B.I. director’s Javert-like excesses in the run-up to the election. Reports quickly surfaced that Mr. Comey had refused to pledge loyalty to Mr. Trump in January and had asked for more resources for the F.B.I.’s Russia inquiry — suggesting the real reason for his removal was to slow or even derail that investigation. Mr. Trump himself gave credence to this interpretation. A pre-firing presidential tweet denounced the idea of Russia-Trump collusion as “a total hoax” and asked “when will this taxpayer-funded charade end?” Two days later, explaining the dismissal to NBC News, Mr. Trump said, “In fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said, ‘You know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story, it’s an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they should have won.’ ” Now, in choosing Mr. Comey’s successor, Mr. Trump will appoint the person charged with investigating his campaign and associates, creating a high credibility hurdle for the new director. Meanwhile, the F.B.I.’s efforts will be leaderless, impeding the third investigation — by the Senate Intelligence Committee — which relies on the bureau’s work to supplement its own. Which brings us back to what Russia is trying to achieve, and what is to be done to stop it. The director of national intelligence concluded in January that Moscow’s meddling in our elections aimed to “undermine public faith in the U.S. democratic process” (while also denigrating Mrs. Clinton and helping to elect Mr. Trump). That puts a premium on ensuring that any investigations into Russia’s activities be above reproach so as to earn the public’s full faith and confidence. At this point, only an inquiry led by a clearly independent counsel can meet that bar. It also means that any actions that raise doubts about the legitimacy of the investigations are doing Russia’s bidding, intentionally or not. Unless and until that stops, Mr. Putin will continue to skate circles around us.