On Thursday, 110 days into his term, President Trump did something I thought he could never do again: He made me laugh. This, from an interview with Time, is what did it: It sounded bad to me. Digital. They have digital. What is digital? And it’s very complicated, you have to be Albert Einstein to figure it out. And I said — and now they want to buy more aircraft carriers. I said what system are you going to be — “Sir, we’re staying with digital.” I said no you’re not. You going to goddamned steam, the digital costs hundreds of millions of dollars more money and it’s no good. The president’s strange comments about aircraft carriers, which he apparently wants outfitted with steam-powered catapults rather than the more complicated “digital” variety, were soon buried by additional developments in the matter of James Comey, most notably Mr. Trump’s assertion that he fired the F.B.I. director because “this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made-up story.” On Friday, the president continued to add fuel to the fire by warning Mr. Comey to avoid leaking to the press about their conversation, lest “tapes” of those conversations somehow be released. Amid questions about whether a special prosecutor would be appointed to continue investigating Mr. Trump’s connections with Russia, I kept going back to the catapults. And I kept laughing. During the campaign, I admit, I laughed about Donald Trump a lot. I laughed at his bizarre Twitter language, his obsession with winning and his seeming lack of understanding of the basics of governing. Somewhere around October, I stopped laughing. Mr. Trump’s lack of regard for basic facts and conventions of public speaking, which had once seemed merely absurd, now felt insulting. What’s more, especially after the election, I recognized that laughter from the left fed Mr. Trump’s appeal, that it was all too easy to cast jokes about him as mockery of his supporters, or as an elitist dismissal of those who don’t speak in a particular way. And it’s been hard to laugh at Mr. Trump since he attained the power of life and death over many Americans. Much of what Mr. Trump says has always been deeply unfunny: that Mexico sends rapists to the United States, that “when you’re a star,” women let you assault them. Now that he has the ability to put his views into practice, even his more ridiculous traits, like his tendency to put certain words in quotes apparently for no reason, seem a lot less funny. So the catapults took me by surprise. Digging into the issue only made me laugh harder. USNI News, a website maintained by the United States Naval Institute, addressed the matter under the headline, “President Trump Wants Gerald Ford Carriers to Use ‘Goddamned Steam’ Catapults Instead of ‘No Good’ Electromagnetic Launchers.” The site explained that returning to steam might in fact be quite difficult: “The Mk 13 steam catapult used on Nimitz-class carriers is no longer in production, and if the service elected to return to steam launching it would likely have to design a new system, with the Navy incurring an unknown level of additional expense.” Laughing at the president can be a coping mechanism — we laugh so we don’t cry. But it’s also a recognition of the way things are. In the last few days, it’s become abundantly clear that it’s not just Mr. Trump’s style of speaking that’s absurd — absurdity is a defining feature of his administration. When the president publicly proclaims that he fired the director of the F.B.I. for investigating his ties with Russia, thus torching in seconds the story his aides spent several days painstakingly constructing, that’s absurd. When the president says the public can’t possibly expect accurate information out of the White House, that’s absurd. Mr. Trump’s free association about the benefits of steam versus “digital” is not merely a sideshow; it’s a hallmark of a presidency based on not just nonsense, but anti-sense. It is possible that the president’s absurdity is strategic. For some of Mr. Trump’s supporters, behaving in ways that defy convention is appealing; he did, after all, campaign on the promise not to do business as usual. And Sam Stein at the Huffington Post has written that Mr. Trump aims to “exhaust everyone else with constant chaos.” Whatever the case, I am not as concerned as I once was that laughing at the president is elitist. I do not believe that the president speaks or thinks as most Americans do. I believe that most Americans are capable of understanding the basic workings of an aircraft carrier, and of performing any number of cognitive tasks Mr. Trump appears unwilling to undertake. I believe that when presented with accurate information, most Americans know the difference between sense and nonsense. I do not know whether the president’s recent actions will damage his reputation among his more fervent supporters, although there is some indication that their opinion of him is souring. I do know that Americans have a right to a president whose words and actions make a basic degree of sense. And when they don’t, we have the right, at the very least, to laugh.