I am a 34-year-old woman who is obsessed with the Switch — Nintendo’s newest and best gaming console, which came out in March. Small problem: I’ve banned myself from getting one. Another problem: The thing is hard to get. Some 2.7 million people rushed to buy the Switch, with its hybrid controllers and portable screen, when it was released, and demand outstripped supply. Now many retailers have been out of stock for weeks, and others have marked up the precious console by hundreds of dollars. I work from home, and if I had a Nintendo Switch, work is not what I’d be doing. My apartment would instead become a glorious pleasure den from which I would enter the brightly colored world of my favorite game: The Legend of Zelda. Zelda is a gaming series set in a fantasy world, where the main character must complete a mission, solving puzzles, munching on bat wings and fighting terrestrial jelly monsters on the way. The newest installment, The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, is world class, apparently. If I had a Switch, and Zelda, I’d traverse forest ranges on horseback, while my bills would go unpaid, my dogs would die of hunger and my work deadlines would fade into the background, secondary to what’s really important: defeating an evil boar king. Each morning, I look at the news and want to flush my head down the toilet. Lucky jerks around the nation are meanwhile firing up their Nintendo Switches. Facebook is full of photos snapped by annoyed spouses: prone adults on couches with controllers in their hands, home on the weekends playing Switch, on a break from the real world. I have an online shopping alert set to notify me the second the new Nintendo Switch stock arrives (retail price $299.99). But I’m not going to get one. I’m just a curious observer is what I tell myself. There is a history to my Nintendo fanaticism. When I was 12, my family lived in Australia. We’d emigrated from Yugoslavia (now Serbia) when the wars began. I was in charge of looking after my 7-year-old sister, and all we did was play games in the dining room we had renamed the “Nintendo Room.” I was an awkward adolescent who didn’t fit in at school — embarrassed by my English-as-a-second-language, arriving at parties in T-shirts my mom got from Target while other girls showed up in tight tops and lipstick. My sister was equally weird, sporting a bowl cut and struggling to make friends. Our dad was dying from cancer in the next room, while my mom worked a full-time job and tended to him. Rather than deal with real life, my sister and I escaped into Zelda. There, our actual circumstances became minor details. There were no immigrants in the world of Nintendo. Being different wouldn’t get us teased, our social status was irrelevant, and anyway we had a more important task to focus on: rescuing a princess from a dungeon. I have not actually touched a Nintendo Switch with my own hands or even been in the same room as one, but from my sophisticated online snooping, I can tell you that the controller vibrates and can be detached, and the graphics are elaborate, unlike the pixelated eight-bit renderings of my memories, punctuated by a primitive synthesizer score. In the several decades I’ve been out of the game, the Nintendo has grown up. What a reunion it would be, the two of us together again as adults, I often think. I’m at a point in my life when a lot of big decisions need to be made. My partner, Michael, annoyingly wants to talk about them. I want the opiate release of a Nintendo Switch. I’ve dropped Michael many hints to this effect. I’ve signed him up for the notification, too. If he is the one who actually buys it, then I am absolved of responsibility, and my life of lying on the couch absorbed in escapist gameplay can begin. “You know, people are selling Switches on eBay for a couple hundred dollars more than the retail price!” I say, leaving my computer open to the purchase page, as I conveniently disappear to “get some air.” But my hints fall on (sensible) deaf ears. I’m pretty sure Michael’s not going to order me a Nintendo Switch. And yet. Whenever a package arrives, I lose my mind. I clutch it to my chest as I run back up to the apartment. I tear the packaging with my keys because I can’t waste time procuring a better implement. But it’s dog poop bags. It’s always dog poop bags. The new stock of Nintendo Switches should be hitting the shelves any minute now. I’ll just be sitting here, stewing. Unless someone — and I don’t really mind who it is — gets one for me.