My mother hated Mother’s Day. She was a 1950s Mennonite housewife from Kansas who became a 1960s radical promoting the overthrow of patriarchy and capitalism. She saw Mother’s Day as a conspiracy between Hallmark and the flower industry, but she was always happy to take my call. We had a complicated history. She left my father and, in 1972, took me to South America in search of the revolution. A few years later, we returned to the States, but then my father won custody of me in a bitter court battle. Instead of giving me up, she kidnapped me, and we fled back across the border. As one might imagine, I had mixed feelings about the whole experience, and throughout my adulthood we mostly avoided the subject. What would have truly made my mother happy, as I discovered from reading her diaries after her death in 2004, was an utterly conventional wish: for me to tell her that she had been a good mother and that I had come to agree with the choices she made. From ages 5 to 11, I traveled with my mother from Detroit to a Berkeley commune to a socialist collective farm in Chile to the coastal shantytowns of Peru. Fleeing marriage, coups and arrest warrants, my mother joined street protests and picket lines, and wrote passionately about the oppression of the poor and powerless. With me by her side, we battled the bad “isms” (imperialism, fascism, sexism and consumerism) and we fought for the good ones (communism, feminism and egalitarianism). When we secretly returned to the United States, we lived in hiding in Denver, where my mother changed her name so that my father could not find us. Throughout, my mother told me how lucky I was to experience the “real world.” I did my best to believe her. I enjoyed feeling like I was part of a cause, even if I had only a vague sense of what that meant. At the same time, I hungered for stability. In the end, my mother was devastated that I never became the radical she dreamed I’d be. “I have to accept that he is no revolutionary,” she wrote in her diary a decade after I left home. “I do need to deal with my grief over this.” She also wrote that she was having trouble sleeping because of “Peter’s betrayal of class struggle.” My mother’s diaries made clear that she saw being a good mother and good revolutionary as the same thing, that there was no tension between the two and that those who thought otherwise just didn’t get it. She was angry that some of her friends and relatives thought I would be better off with my father and that she would feel unburdened, “as if delivering my child to the enemies of the revolution would ‘free me up’ somehow to make revolution.” That, she wrote, was “not the kind of revolution I’m into.” She saw her rejection of traditional “good mothering” — constrained by the nuclear family and the creature comforts of capitalism — as proof itself that she was a good mother. Still, during the days I spent in an Ecuadorean hospital bed recovering from a serious bout of diarrhea when I was 7, she acknowledged in her diary what she would never have said to me: “I feel kind of guilty for exposing him to such hazards.” But then she continued: “If he gets through O.K. he’ll have some understanding that he may be glad for later. We have been living in one of the largest slums in South America.” I did not know until going through the diaries how worried she was that others, including me, might judge her to have been a bad mother. She wrote that when I didn’t call her it made her feel that she needed to ask for forgiveness. I wish I could explain to my mother what I feel now. Occasionally she was a bad mother. No child should feel that he has to let his mother kidnap him in order to secure her love. No child should play with a loaded gun because it is “good training for the revolution.” I’m certainly raising my own daughters very differently. And yet, I would not trade my life with her for a thousand “normal” childhoods. My mother’s approach to parenting was deeply rooted in her commitment to transformative social change. While she was sometimes reckless and irresponsible — at least by conventional standards — I never felt unwanted or unloved. And in the end she was right to tell me I was lucky. For many years, I felt grateful only that my life didn’t spiral completely out of control, but it’s easier to see the other side now. Without her I would have had a more closed, sheltered existence, less touched by other people and places and less offended by the world’s enormous inequalities. My mother imprinted on me a passion for politics — so much so that I became a political-science professor. Even if we ended up intensely disagreeing about politics, her angry idealism and devotion to creating a more just world was infectious. It has made me who I am. I wish I could call her now, to tell her that.