This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. The White House’s new commission on “election integrity” has a simple, if unstated, goal: creating hurdles that make voting more difficult, especially for low-income, Latino and African-American citizens. The commission is being led by Mike Pence, the vice president and former governor of Indiana, and Kris Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state. Those two states have put in place several vote-suppression techniques that may end up being models for the commission. “If you want to know what such voter intimidation looks like, take a look at Pence’s home state of Indiana, where state police in October 2016 raided the offices of a group working to register African-American and low-income voters,” Ari Berman, author of the book “Give Us the Ballot,” writes in The Nation. “In Kansas, Kobach has been the driving force within the G.O.P. behind policies that erect new barriers to the ballot box and the most fervent evangelist of unproven voter-fraud claims.” Jamelle Bouie of Slate has more on the obstacles that Kobach has tried to put between low-income voters and the ballot box. An important caveat here: We still don’t know whether voter suppression changed the outcome in any state in the 2016 presidential election, despite some recent claims from the political left. In a smart piece in Slate, Josh Voorhees walks through the evidence. He ends up skeptical. But as he points out, disenfranchising American citizens is “shameful” regardless of its short-term consequences. Berman makes an even broader point: “We’re at a very dangerous moment for democracy right now, when the core institutions of our democratic system have repeatedly been attacked by the president of the United States.” He adds, “Saving American democracy is the most urgent fight of the Trump era.” Bouie writes: “As Donald Trump begins his attack on voting, the Democratic Party should make voting rights its rallying cry, a first-order priority for any Democrat that wins office. More than a potential advantage for the party, it’s simply the right thing to do, a statement of belief in a democracy that, at this stage, needs all the help it can get.” To stay up-to-date on voting rights, I recommend following Bouie and Berman on Twitter. My own recent take on vote suppression is available here. And The Times’s 1965 editorial on the Voting Rights Act is here.