The man seated across from me had been a spy for the United States for several decades. Recruited by a C.I.A. officer, this man, at great risk to his and his family’s lives, had provided critically important intelligence that formed the basis of innumerable raw intelligence reports, some of which found their way into the President’s Daily Brief. We met because he wanted to tell me something. With tears in his eyes, he explained that he was drawn to work for us by the idea of America — that America stood for justice, decency and freedom and against tyranny, oppression and injustice. He said that he agreed to divulge critical secrets about his government’s leaders and his country’s capacities — not because the agency had compromising material on him (it did not) and not for money (he was paid, but not much), but because he believed in America. This man’s story is hardly unique. Many people agree to become spies for the C.I.A. because they see a stark difference between our ideals and the repressive and brutal regimes of their own countries. A friend told me recently about one of his best recruits, a full-fledged member of a terrorist organization. This person was captivated by the prospect that after his days of spying against terrorists were over, he might be able go to the United States and pursue the American dream. He, too, viewed America as embracing the world’s downtrodden and dispossessed, not their oppressors, and offering everyone the opportunity to succeed. Both of these men romanticized America, and no doubt the C.I.A. officers who recruited them played on their somewhat exaggerated image of this country. But that image of the United States as the “last best hope of earth,” proclaimed by our leaders for decades, is an enormously effective recruiting tool, not least because it has always had a ring of truth. I am reminded of these recruits, and many others like them, when I hear the Trump administration lavish praise on autocrats, when it tries to close our borders to refugees from war-torn countries and when Secretary of State Rex Tillerson proclaims that the United States must de-emphasize human rights. This departure from decades of bipartisan foreign policy is rightly criticized for ignoring the critical role that “the American idea” plays in promoting our interests abroad, particularly when it comes directly from the president and the secretary of state. But lauding autocrats, rebuffing refugees and downgrading human rights — as much as reports that Mr. Trump revealed highly classified intelligence to the Russians — also has a much more direct, palpable and unmistakably negative impact on our national security. Tarnishing the idea that America stands for something uniquely good makes it harder for the C.I.A. to recruit spies. The best arrow in the C.I.A.’s quiver — the arrow that has led to countless high-quality recruits signing up over the years — will not be nearly as sharp. No one can say how many potential spies will decide that working for America is not worth the risk. But the administration’s rejection of the American idea will surely mean that some will say no. And that means intelligence that could have been collected for years to come will be lost to us. That will harm our national security. The intelligence collected from human sources is distinct and potent. It is often the only way to obtain critically important information on plans, intentions, motivations and fears. Human assets can obtain specific information to answer key intelligence questions from policy makers. Trained spies can offer crucial insights into relationships and context, making other intelligence, such as information from intercepted communications, much more valuable. Every asset who is not recruited impoverishes our understanding of the opportunities, risks and threats in the world. And while every human asset is valuable, those assets who sign up because they are motivated by ideology, not money or fear of compromise, are among our best. To be sure, C.I.A. case officers will continue to recruit spies with breathtaking moxie, ingenuity and perseverance. But President Trump and Mr. Tillerson are making their job harder. As the administration continues to find its foreign policy footing, and as it thinks through the image it projects to the world, it should bear in mind that relinquishing America’s place as the shining city on the hill will do real and profound harm to our national security.