The reported effort by President Trump to pressure the F.B.I. director to drop the investigation into Russian influence over his former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, has provoked cries of “obstruction of justice.” Trump critics are demanding an independent prosecutor, à la Watergate, or at least the appointment of a nonpartisan, neutral F.B.I. director to continue the investigation. Those critics may hope to get a combination of both in one, with the Justice Department’s appointment on Wednesday of Robert Mueller, a former F.B.I. director, as special counsel to continue the inquiry into Russian meddling in the 2016 election. Both Democrats and Republicans, however, will find it near impossible to turn Mr. Trump’s core executive powers against him. Instead, Congress should turn to the powers designed by the framers for exactly such circumstances: the tools of funding, oversight and, as a last resort, impeachment. As described in notes that the F.B.I. director at the time, James Comey, made about his meeting with the president, Mr. Trump’s comments come close to obstruction of justice but don’t clearly cross the line. According to those notes, Mr. Trump said of the investigation into Mr. Flynn, “I hope you can see your way clear to letting this go.” Both Republicans and Democrats have declared a desire to get to the bottom of the conversation. Representative Jason Chaffetz, Republican of Utah, promised to subpoena the Comey memos, and the Democratic minority leader, Nancy Pelosi of California, said that such a “brazen attempt to shut down the F.B.I.’s investigation of Michael Flynn is an assault on the rule of law that is fundamental to our democracy.” Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, commented, “I think it’s reaching the point where it’s of Watergate size and scale.” But standing alone, Mr. Trump’s comments do not unambiguously show an intent to obstruct justice. While he set out his favorable opinion of Mr. Flynn, he stopped short of ordering Mr. Comey to drop the investigation. Mr. Trump’s words carried an implicit recognition that Mr. Comey would make the final call. Unlike in the Watergate case, there is no evidence that the president ordered witnesses to lie, destroyed evidence or tried to block F.B.I. agents from doing their job. At least, no evidence yet. Career F.B.I. and Department of Justice officials will not only continue to pursue their investigation into Mr. Flynn but are also likely to redouble their efforts, as Mr. Mueller’s appointment suggests. But pursuing the president for obstruction of justice is likely to fail, not just for lack of facts, but on constitutional grounds as well. Article II of the Constitution gives the president the duty to “take care that the laws be faithfully executed.” With this clause, the framers vested in the president the authority to oversee all federal law enforcement. As Alexander Hamilton observed in Federalist 70, “good government” requires “energy in the executive,” and a vigorous president must ensure “the steady administration of the laws.” According to this original constitutional design, President Trump may order the end of any investigation, even one into his own White House. Until 1999, the modern solution to the problem of policing the White House was to create an independent counsel. But the cure was worse than the disease, diverting executive power outside constitutional controls and sapped the presidency of energy. Frequently, Justice Antonin Scalia wrote, an effort to undermine the Constitution’s separation of powers “will come before the court clad, so to speak, in sheep’s clothing.” But in the case of the independent prosecutor, he wrote, “this wolf comes as a wolf.” After presidents from both parties had suffered at the hands of independent counsels in the 1980s and ’90s, Congress allowed the statute to expire. The type of special prosecutor just appointed by the acting attorney general, Rod Rosenstein, differs from the independent counsels created under the expired act and is significantly weaker. Mr. Mueller’s role will be governed by Justice Department rules, which can always be overridden by the president. The larger defect of independent counsels, of either type, is that they had the convenient effect of relieving Congress of its constitutional duty to constrain an abusive president. If Mr. Trump has truly impeded a valid investigation, Congress’s initial action should be refusal to enact his legislative agenda or fund White House priorities. If these measures fail, Congress can turn to impeachment, which allows for the removal of a president for “high crimes and misdemeanors.” Contrary to common wisdom, impeachment does not require the president to commit a crime but instead refers to significant political mistakes or even incompetence. This was the framers’ intent — as Hamilton explained in Federalist 65, impeachment was to tackle “the misconduct of public men” or “the abuse or violation of some public trust.” Such offenses, he wrote, “are of a nature which may with peculiar propriety be denominated political, as they relate chiefly to injuries done immediately to the society itself.” After the Civil War, for instance, the Senate came within one vote of removing President Andrew Johnson for undermining Reconstruction. The first step would be for Congress to form a special committee to investigate the Russia controversy and the Trump-Comey affair. To forestall this, Mr. Trump should look to the example of his predecessor Ronald Reagan. The Iran-contra scandal nearly destroyed Reagan’s presidency and could have led to his impeachment. After the revelations that his national security staff had traded arms for hostages held by Iran and transferred funds to the Nicaraguan contras, Reagan cleaned house and agreed to reforms of government oversight of covert action. After that, his presidency not only survived but also thrived. President Trump should emulate Reagan. He should fire his chief of staff, Reince Priebus, and his chief strategist, Stephen Bannon, and all the others who brought the chaos of the presidential campaign into the White House. He can replace them with more experienced government hands, much as he replaced Mr. Flynn with H. R. McMaster. He can appoint an independent presidential commission to get to the bottom of the Russia affair, copying the Bush inquiry into Iraq’s W.M.D. program. Most important, Mr. Trump should begin deferring to Congress on domestic policy and instead focus on national security and foreign affairs, where the framers wanted the presidency’s structural advantages of unity, speed and energy to shine. The alternative is to spend his term in office floundering from one self-inflicted controversy to the next, exhausting himself amid a rising flood of investigations.