TEL AVIV — On Tuesday morning, the heads of Israel’s intelligence community awoke to reports that President Trump had disclosed classified information during his meeting with Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov of Russia. By the end of the day, it became clear that the highly sensitive secret material had been acquired and supplied to the Americans by Israeli espionage agencies. Feverish investigations have been underway in Israel to ascertain which exact item from among the myriad pieces of intelligence that Israel has given the United States about Syria was the one that Mr. Trump cavalierly shared with the Russians. At the same time, damage control efforts have begun. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who treats Mr. Trump with the utmost delicacy, instructed his aides not to react to the news. The prime minister is concerned by Mr. Trump’s volatility, and he is doing everything to avoid marring next week’s presidential visit to Israel. Mr. Netanyahu’s intelligence chiefs, though, are up in arms. Israel and the United States have been locked in a mutually necessary and beneficial intelligence-sharing relationship for more than 60 years. But what if it’s not so beneficial anymore? A source in one agency told me on Tuesday evening: “Trump tweeted that he has the right to share intelligence with the Russians, because he’s the president. I’m no expert on American law — that can be looked into by someone else — but to take material that is clearly not America’s and that was conveyed to a limited American group, and only them, is a blatant violation of everything that has ever been agreed to between our two countries and a kick aimed at the sacred confidence upon which our special relationship is founded.” The report of the presidential leak was greeted with anger, but it cannot be said that there was great surprise. At a meeting between American and Israeli intelligence officials a few weeks before Mr. Trump’s inauguration, the Americans recommended to the Israelis that they refrain from passing to his White House sensitive secret information, or material that could lead to the baring of sources or methods of intelligence gathering — at least until it became clear that Mr. Trump or members of his staff were not linked inappropriately to the Russians or exposed to extortion by Moscow. An Israeli who took part in that meeting told me it was “a bizarre scene” and “against all the rules of protocol.” Israel has good reason to be concerned about its intelligence making its way to Moscow: Russia is a major player in the war in Syria on Israel’s northern border, where it has also become a close ally of Iran and Hezbollah, Israel’s sworn enemies. But the problem goes even deeper: If Israeli intelligence that has been shared with the United States — whether the National Security Agency, the C.I.A., the Defense Department or the White House — is not safely guarded, Israel faces a major threat to its security. Cooperation with America’s agencies is deeply embedded in Israel’s intelligence community. This relationship was born in 1956, when an Israeli spy was the first to obtain a copy of the famous speech by Premier Nikita Khrushchev of the Soviet Union admitting Stalin’s crimes and handed it over to the C.I.A. Since then, the cooperation has grown beyond the C.I.A.-Mossad liaison to take in other agencies, including in particular the collaboration between the N.S.A. and its Israeli counterpart, Unit 8200 of the Military Intelligence Directorate; the F.B.I. and its parallel internal security agency in Israel, the Shin Bet; and other organizations. The N.S.A. and Unit 8200 have signed a number of secret agreements and have even erected giant N.S.A. satellite antenna dishes southwest of Jerusalem. In this relationship, Israel has always had an advantage in the recruitment and handling of agents in Arab countries, and the Americans have the edge when it comes to the technology for intercepting transmissions. In practical terms, Israel has become the eyes and ears of the United States in the Middle East. This arrangement has freed the United States from a heavy intelligence-gathering burden. But it has also forced the Americans to depend upon the Israelis. When the latter failed to see dramatic developments in the arena, or didn’t want to see it, the Americans were also blinded, as in the surprise attack of the Arab states against Israel in October 1973. The intelligence relationship between Israel and the United States suffered a crippling blow in 1985, when it was discovered that Israel was running a spy, Jonathan Pollard, inside United States Naval Intelligence. This act, as well as other breaches of confidence, generated enormous suspicion toward Israel. The United States continued to cooperate with Unit 8200, but it also tapped the encrypted phone conversations between its representatives at the N.S.A. and their commanders here in Tel Aviv. Ultimately, necessity trumped suspicion. For the past 15 years, the partnership has soared to new heights, with the growth of new common threats: Hamas, Al Qaeda, Hezbollah, the nuclear projects of Iran and Syria, and more recently the Islamic State. This partnership has produced impressive results in the penetration and disruption of Iran’s nuclear weapons program. The high point was Operation Olympic Games, under which the most deadly computer viruses of the time were created, which caused devastating damage to Iran’s uranium-enrichment centrifuges. It was Mossad that headed this operation, but it would not have managed without American assistance. Israel and the United States even shared the one thing countries almost never cooperate in: targeted killing. In February 2008, President George W. Bush, in a highly unusual step, permitted the C.I.A. to cooperate with Israel in the assassination of Hezbollah’s military chief, Imad Mughniyeh. In recent months, Israel has passed on to the United States a great deal of highly sensitive and detailed information about the close coordination between the armed forces of Syria, Iran, Hezbollah and Russia, under Russian command. The problem, according to a former senior Mossad official, lies not in the information but in the most highly sensitive sources, some of whom were cultivated for years: “The Russians are not dumb. They’ll realize where it comes from and they or their allies, all Israel’s enemies, will take appropriate steps.” The apprehensions voiced at the meeting before Mr. Trump’s inauguration related to leaks not only to Russia but also to Iran. “If indeed Trump, out of innocence or ignorance, leaked information to the Russians, then there is a real danger to sources that it took years to acquire, and to our working methods,” the source who was at the meeting said. “We have to rethink what to give the Americans. Until we are sure that this channel is as secure as secure can be, we must not hand over our crown jewels.” But after six decades of cooperation, it is difficult to picture the two intelligence communities operating separately. It would cause untold damage to both.