In normal times, the appointment of a former F.B.I. director as a special counsel to investigate whether a sitting president’s associates colluded with the Kremlin to put him in office would be a powerful reaffirmation of the rule of law. The official who appointed the counsel is a former federal prosecutor, and he demonstrated independence by not informing the White House in advance. In normal times, those who believed the president colluded with the Kremlin could be reassured that the investigation would be credible. Those who believed the Kremlin conspiracy was a partisan myth could feel confident that the counsel would not fall prey to political pressures. But we have not been living in normal times since Donald Trump was inaugurated in January and set about making a mockery both of his oath and of the office of the presidency. And the appointment of Robert Mueller, the former F.B.I. chief, to investigate the Kremlin Kaper is a classic too-little-too-late action taken by the wrong person. Mueller was chosen by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, a former United States attorney, because Rosenstein’s boss, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, had recused himself from the Russia investigation. But Sessions’s recusal does not seem meaningful since we know that he took part in a White House meeting at which Trump demanded that James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, be fired. And Rosenstein himself is tainted. He was also in that meeting and seems to have obeyed the president’s orders to gin up a memo making it appear as though Comey was being dismissed over the investigation of Hillary Clinton’s emails. The White House, in fact, tried to put the entire responsibility for Comey’s dismissal on Rosenstein, until Trump blurted out that he was motivated by the Russia inquiry and had decided to fire Comey before the meeting. The Russia affair needs to be investigated. It has always been a murky business, but it has been kept alive in large measure by Trump’s own actions, like meeting with the Russian foreign minister and ambassador shortly after Comey was fired and, news accounts say, sharing highly classified information about counterterrorism with them. It is hard to imagine that Mueller would allow his reputation to be ruined by putting his thumb on the scale. Although who expected that Comey would sacrifice his own reputation by thrusting himself into the middle of the presidential election or that he would mislead Congress about his reasons for announcing days before the election that he was reopening the Clinton email inquiry? But the need for investigation has moved far beyond the Kremlin Kaper. There is strong reason to believe that Trump’s firing of Comey was a grave abuse of power aimed at thwarting an investigation that could harm the president and his associates. That, as many legal experts have pointed out, is a violation of the president’s oath of office and possibly an obstruction of justice. Those are the more urgent issues that need to be addressed, and Rosenstein is inextricably tied to them. His participation in that fateful White House meeting about Comey raises the possibility that he was at least a witness to a conspiracy to obstruct the Russian investigation, and possibly a participant. His actions would inevitably come under scrutiny in a real investigation of Trump and his administration. Trump has whined about the Russia investigation – during a commencement address at the Coast Guard Academy and in a series of especially strange tweets on Thursday morning in which he said hilariously that he was the victim of “the greatest single witch hunt of a politician in American history!” In a twisted way — and twisted is the new normal in the Trump administration — the Mueller appointment is not bad for Trump. It keeps the attention focused on what his associates may or may not have done during the campaign (a question that seems to generate little interest among his core supporters) and away from his actions in office. We can only hope that Mueller will follow the Russian connection to those other questions and that Sessions, Rosenstein and Trump himself don’t stop him.