We were just a few strides short of the finish line when I dropped the baton. But the baton was actually a purple T-shirt, and the race was the daily contest known as Getting This Child on the School Bus On Time. On its own the purple shirt was innocuous if a little peculiar. As part of Teacher Appreciation Week at my 8-year-old son’s school, the children were invited to wear their teacher’s favorite color, and my son’s teacher’s favorite color was purple. No big deal, right? Except, my son didn’t own anything purple, so this meant going out and buying something — and then persuading my son to wear it. Spoiler alert: There’s still nothing purple in my son’s clothes closet because luring an already particular kid (silky track pants or bust!) to the mall is a herculean task and, frankly, I ran out of time. He wore his favorite shirt (white with blue-gray sharks) to school that day. And I’ll admit to feeling just slightly defeated. Before I continue, let me make a few things clear. First, I wholly appreciate teachers. Second, I’m not against infusing the school day with spirit and fun. And last, I am a working mother. That fact alone pushes the old guilt-o-meter to 10. Don’t believe me? Ask the nearest working mother to show you that timeworn apparatus. (Actually, do not ask a working mother to show you anything. Let that busy woman be.) Back to that purple shirt. On any given weekday morning, getting my son fed, clothed, lunch-ready and out the door on time — or on a rare day, early — to catch the school bus is its own feat. The level of coordination, diligence and patience needed to pull this off almost daily is borderline heroic. And no one wants extra footwork thrown into the choreographed dance just before the curtain goes up on the stage. Trying to remember to sign this permission slip or send in that book order or — oh, yeah — the small matter of homework and checking that it’s done, and properly, is more than enough without having to get your kid dressed for Wacky Socks Day, Dress as Your Favorite Character From Literature Day, Pajamas and Stuffies (or stuffed animals, for the heedless) Day and, of course, Wear Your Teacher’s Favorite Color Day. The end of the academic year offers no relief. My son’s summer day camp observes theme days and weeks like Harry Potter Wizards Week, Crazy Hat Day, Far Away T-shirt Day, Plaid Day, Favorite Soccer Team Day and consecutive ’60s, ’70s and ’80s Weeks, each bringing breathless scrambling and an inevitable layer of guilt to what should be simple summer fun. As a fellow journalist and mom suggested, “The theme of summer camp should be ‘summer’ and ‘camp.’ ” True, these spirit weeks and theme days are billed as optional, but we parents know that there are many times when the “non” in “noncompulsory” is silent and when volunteering comes with a not-so-subtle nudge. Not to mention the self-imposed shame that comes with not measuring up to those other self-actualized, perfect parents who are obviously “doing it right.” While I am relieved that my son doesn’t seem bothered by being the only kid who showed up for Superhero Day not wearing an artisanal, Etsy-store-level costume with clever cape, I often think of the child who very much does care about being the odd one out. I empathize with the working parent who is also a single parent, showing up every day for this monumental job of raising small humans with just one set of hands. Moreover, what about the working parent who doesn’t have the resources — time, money or energy — to participate? For many people, theme days just make a hard job even harder. The thing is, in trying to curate our children’s lives to ensure optimal happiness, we’ve wound up making them more complicated and creating trouble for ourselves along the way. Celebrating summer and outdoor play at day camp should not have parents hustling to the crafts store or fashioning a Harry Potter scarf from old sweaters (hey, desperate times). Why are we adding trap doors to this already precarious staircase known as parenthood? Can’t we all — teachers and camp organizers alike — agree to let kids find their way to fun and spirit more naturally? If we want to show appreciation for our educators with a color-coordinated salute, maybe suggest that kids draw or paint something that features their teacher’s favorite color instead of wearing it. Or to honor Harry Potter, have children dream up a list of their five best wizard spells, complete with intricate descriptions and twisty pronunciations and etymologies to share with their classmates. This would foster creativity and help kids learn to take initiative while easing the pressure on working parents so that we can focus on more important things, like winning at Getting This Child on the School Bus On Time.