GROVE CITY, Pa. — On Saturday, Vice President Mike Pence will give the commencement address at Grove City College, the small Christian institution in Western Pennsylvania where I am a junior. A few years ago, Mr. Pence would have been a noncontroversial choice. Other prominent Republicans, including Ben Carson, Jeb Bush and Laura Bush, have spoken here, and the school is known for its conservative values. Indeed, the phrase “conservative values” is in the Grove City mission statement. But the announcement that Mr. Pence would be commencement speaker this year drew considerable backlash. Alumni and students flooded administrators’ inboxes with emails protesting the decision, and faculty members have called for boycotts. Many who oppose the decision say that hosting Mr. Pence will serve as an endorsement of the current president. This is an interesting crossroads for the school. Grove City is proud of its image as a steadfastly conservative Christian oasis in the increasingly liberal landscape of higher education. On campus, conservative politics and conservative faith usually go hand in hand. Students study the politics of Ronald Reagan and the literature of C. S. Lewis as well as the Bible. Most of us were raised in Protestant evangelical households, and more than 16 percent of the 2,500 students were home-schooled. Some students have had little exposure to popular culture or liberal politics. A few seem to see their conservative political affiliation as a ticket to eternal salvation. But the 2017 election exposed a rift between ideological and political conservatism. Evangelical voters have long demanded that politicians exemplify Christian character and morality in the public sector. In Donald Trump, however, evangelicals were confronted with a candidate who pledged allegiance to conservative ideals, but embodied none of them. Many of the issues evangelicals care about — marriage, abortion and religious liberty — are more dependent on a conservative Supreme Court than a conservative president. Divorced, disrespectful and domineering, Mr. Trump might not have been the first choice of many Christians, but he was certainly more likely than his Democratic opponent to advance cultural conservatism on the court. Plenty of young evangelicals I know, however, were not persuaded by that argument. Claire Waugh, a senior from Woodbridge, Va., told me that she refused in November to have a Trump vote on her conscience, and that she hates to see the country being “led by a man who spews vitriol against anyone who is unlike him, a man who tries to invoke God’s name when he is acting utterly ungodly.” And for many on campus, Mr. Pence’s reputation for being a very faith-oriented politician does not make up for his being Mr. Trump’s vice president. “It baffles me that a Christian institution, that supposedly values every human life and facilitates Christian education and beliefs, would allow someone as divisive as Mike Pence to come speak,” said Megan Baak, 22, a senior from Lancaster, Pa. “In an age where hate, violence, divisiveness and partisanship are so prevalent, I am shocked that Grove City would bring one of the most controversial political figureheads to our campus for graduation.” Long before Mr. Pence tied himself to Mr. Trump, he was a good friend of Paul McNulty, Grove City’s president. Mr. McNulty was deputy attorney general for three years under President George W. Bush, and he and Mr. Pence became particularly close after their wives met while working at the Christian school both couples’ children attended. In announcing that Mr. Pence would give the commencement address, Mr. McNulty told our school paper that when his son died four years ago, the Pences “offered amazing support” to his family. Nobody doubts the strength of their friendship. But it is not a good enough reason to invite a member of the Trump White House to commencement. By being politically accommodating to the administration of a faithless man who enacts damaging policies, the school is sending graduates a message that undermines the intention of this institution. Protest at Grove City looks a little different from that at colleges like Auburn or Berkeley. After the Pence announcement, students expressed their concerns in editorials for the school newspaper and in meetings with administrators and Mr. McNulty. Across campus, students are debating the merits of tying faith to politics — a subject that has always been taken for granted. A Facebook group, with nearly 900 members, is planning a physical protest on graduation day. Grove City College is private, so the protesters will not be allowed on the grounds. But they do plan to march through the small town that encircles campus. My hope is that Mr. Pence, as a Christian, will use his platform here to encourage graduates to apply their faith toward the greater good. Presumably, if he can harness his faith toward the same end, he may make a difference as a voice of reason and compassion in the White House. A Christian politician is not one who builds power by fueling toxic, fear-inflating rhetoric. Perhaps Mr. Pence can still break away from the chaos President Trump has cultivated. I have been taught to repent of fear, anxiety, defensiveness, mockery and anger. So, however naïve as it may sound, I want to remain hopeful — both about Mr. Pence’s commencement address and the direction he could take our country.