In January 1970, President Richard Nixon’s top aide, H. R. Haldeman urged him to hire the young media consultant Roger Ailes as his television adviser. Nixon — who was obsessively image-conscious even for a politician — would often complain that he needed someone to advise him on “how I should stand, where the cameras will be” and even whether to hold the phone “with my right hand or my left hand.” Now, Haldeman reported in a memo, “I think Ailes is probably the best man for the job.” He was hired, as a consultant, at $100 a day (about $650 today). It was three years earlier that Mr. Ailes, the impresario of Fox News who died yesterday at 77, had told Nixon on the set of “The Mike Douglas Show,” where he was a producer, that “television is not a gimmick.” During the 1968 campaign, Nixon began to rely on Mr. Ailes for advice on how to position the lighting and the lectern for his TV appearances, guidance on what clothes to wear and how to cut his hair, memos prescribing what his long-term media strategy should be and much more. Mr. Ailes went on to help Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush and countless other Republican politicians master the medium. But as significant as what Mr. Ailes taught Nixon is what Nixon taught Mr. Ailes: the political power of popular resentment against a liberal cultural elite. Ever since his first race for Congress in 1946, Nixon had succeeded in politics by portraying himself as the voice of the “forgotten Americans,” the ordinary, hard-working Joes who were stifled by regulations and taxes imposed by Washington. He made it his mission to change the widespread reputation of the Republican Party as “the party of big business and privilege.” He did so over the years by mobilizing popular rage against various figures of purportedly undeserved power and influence: Washington bureaucrats, college professors, Supreme Court justices, student protesters and, not least, the news media. Nixon’s swift downfall in the months after his re-election sometimes leads us to forget how effective his political insight was. The welter of crimes and abuses of power known as Watergate obviously remains his greatest legacy, as current events are again reminding us. But in second place would surely be his reshaping of the Republican Party to enshrine his brand of cultural populism as both doctrine and strategy. Roger Ailes probably didn’t need Nixon to instruct him in the benefits of cultural populism; it grew out of his own experience growing up in Ohio, a sick child (he was frequently hospitalized for his hemophilia) in a working-class family. But Mr. Ailes’s political sensibilities were forged in the Nixon years, and in the following decades, he did as much as any figure to keep these ideas and approaches front and center in Republican presidential campaigns. Most notably, he was the driving force behind George H. W. Bush’s 1988 White House bid, focusing the campaign on two issues above all: crime and patriotism. Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts was transmogrified from an immigrant success story and consummate technocrat into a namby-pamby liberal who opposed the Pledge of Allegiance and succored criminals like the murderer and rapist William Horton. Mr. Ailes specialized in these sorts of issues, too, at Fox News. Individual issues would come and go — acid, amnesty and abortion in 1972, and immigration, political correctness and transgender bathrooms in 2016 — but the attacks on liberals as elite, out of touch and protective of the “wrong people” came from the same playbook. So, too, did the persistent denigration of the mainstream news media. Nixon’s antipathy for most of the national press corps had been visceral and calculated. Early in his career, he had enjoyed mostly favorable coverage and counted several journalists among his friends and boosters. But after the 1952 presidential campaign, when the revelation of his secret slush fund nearly led Dwight Eisenhower to drop him as his running mate, Nixon viewed reporters with a suspicion bordering on paranoia. During the 1960s, moreover, many Americans came to believe that mainstream journalists were breaking from long-held norms of neutrality and letting their liberal views on issues such as civil rights and the Vietnam War creep into their reporting. In the 1968 campaign and especially as president, Nixon played upon this perception for political advantage. In the 1990s, Mr. Ailes played on the same perception to achieve cable domination. It took considerable gumption for a longtime Republican with unabashedly right-wing political views to declare his news network “fair and balanced,” unlike the competition. But this positioning was a pitch-perfect expression of his Nixonian cultural populism. It was this populism that, through the influence of Mr. Ailes and Fox News, helped propel the Republican Party to electoral success over the past 16 years. Thanks in part to Roger Ailes, Richard Nixon 45 years ago absorbed the lessons of television. More important, television has now fully absorbed the lessons of Richard Nixon. Mr. Ailes may be gone, but Donald Trump is now president.