HOUSTON — It’s happening again. The stirring of the heart. The quickening of the pulse. The desire to abandon reality, even if you suspect there’s a world of hurt to come. Love, thy name is Beto. If you haven’t heard, our junior senator from Texas, a.k.a. Darth Vader, a.k.a. Voldemort, a.k.a. Ted Cruz, has a challenger for 2018, a 44-year-old Democratic congressman from El Paso by the name of Beto O’Rourke. Mr. O’Rourke may still be unknown to many, even in the state, but for those searching for a savior of the Turn Texas Blue variety, the crush is blossoming. Among statewide Democratic insiders, Beto is already a member of the First Name Club, with Madonna and Cher. We’ve been here before, of course. Most cruelly in 2014, with State Senator Wendy Davis’s quixotic quest to defeat Greg Abbott. The livestreaming of her filibuster to kill a heinous anti-abortion bill on the floor of the State Legislature turned Ms. Davis overnight into the Great Democratic Hope of Texas. She was smart (Harvard Law School). She was gorgeous (remember the fangirl spread in Vogue?). And she had a respectable progressive record as both a city councilwoman and a state representative from Fort Worth. Wendy was gonna do it! She didn’t. Our right-wing governor crushed her by about 20 points. Yes, there were some dumb campaign choices, and not even the truest believers could blame sexism entirely for the loss, but the bottom line was that the Republican Party was still running Texas. Two years later, Hillary Clinton thought she had a chance to carry the state in the presidential election. There was some evidence she might: Texas’ biggest cities are resoundingly blue, and respectable pollsters were predicting the time had come. It hadn’t. Donald Trump trounced her by 52 percent to 43 percent. Cockeyed optimists in the Democratic Party claimed that Mrs. Clinton lost by less than anticipated, but the basic math between the parties here remains unchanged, as does the conventional wisdom. The best advice for a Democrat running in Texas? Invite the press to watch you set your campaign funds on fire. But then Mr. O’Rourke showed up. This time will be different, or so his proponents say. He is liberal and progressive, but also technologically and economically literate in a way that should appeal to business. He speaks fluent Spanish. He has served his district well, especially by touting the charms and economic opportunities (as opposed to the crime) on the El Paso-Juarez border. Older Democrats like to compare him to the Kennedys, in his politics and looks. (He is handsome and toothy, with a thatch of shimmering brown hair.) Millennials like him because he once played in a punk band called Foss, because he started a software company, and because he has a few things in common with Bernie Sanders. Like him, Beto promises to go it alone, without support from consultants and political action committees. Mr. O’Rourke also knows how to brawl. He pulled off two upsets, the first to become a city councilman, and the second and more important in his 2012 congressional victory against Silvestre Reyes, a 16-year incumbent who is Mexican-American. Mr. O’Rourke also does savvy social media. When a snowstorm closed Washington airports in March, Mr. O’Rourke and a fellow Texan congressman, the Republican Will Hurd, livestreamed their road trip from Texas to the Capitol, the subtext being that some Democrats and some Republicans can occupy the same space without looking like they’re auditioning for Comedy Capers. Besides, it was a neat way for Mr. O’Rourke to introduce himself to a national audience: Along with traditional media outlets, 2.6 million Facebook viewers checked out the guys as they chomped on junk food in between discussions of Big Issues. They even got a shout out from Mark Zuckerberg. Then there is the spread of so-called anti-Trump sentiment — the same one that Democrats in Kansas and Georgia and Montana are also pinning their hopes on. Mr. O’Rourke has shown that he, too, can hold a rally. The crowds that greeted him in Houston, San Antonio and even Midland, once home to the Bush cabal, have been like Elvis concerts. Finally, there was a recent poll by the Texas Lyceum, a nonpartisan leadership organization, which doesn’t bode well for Ted Cruz. It showed San Antonio’s high-profile congressman, Joaquin Castro — he of the famed Castro twins — winning a hypothetical 2018 Senate runoff by 4 percentage points, with 35 percent to Mr. Cruz’s 31 percent. Worse for Mr. Cruz was that he tied at 30 percent in a match-up against a total newcomer: a pipsqueak named Beto O’Rourke. Subsequently, Mr. Castro decided the time wasn’t right — see Texas Democrats, above — and never declared his candidacy. Unless someone else decides to run in the Republican or Democratic primaries, that leaves Mr. O’Rourke alone, slingshot in hand, against Mr. Cruz. So that’s the good news, the stuff Democratic dreams are made of. Here’s the bad news: Thus far, Mr. O’Rourke has a $400,000 war chest compared with Mr. Cruz’s $4.2 million, a big deficit to make up when the cost of running a statewide campaign in Texas starts at $1 million a week. There’s the power of incumbency, too. Mr. Cruz may be bruised, but he’s hardly bloodied. He even has 2.6 million Twitter followers to Mr. O’Rourke’s 25,000, proving once again that social media is not just for hipsters. Some believe that a Democratic primary race, however divisive, would have prepped the victor to withstand Mr. Cruz’s ruthless campaign tactics. (Mr. O’Rourke had two arrests in the 1990s, one for D.U.I. and another for breaking and entering. Though both incidents have been explained away as youthful indiscretions, Mr. Cruz will be sure to turn them into high crimes and misdemeanors.) Finally, there’s the biggest problem of all: Democrats haven’t won a statewide race in Texas since 1994. John Cornyn, the senior Texas senator, has described Mr. O’Rourke’s run as “a suicide mission.” Maybe. Probably. But this is Texas: If you can’t dream big, why bother?