The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints last week announced a plan to scale back its involvement in the Boy Scouts of America by removing from the organization all Mormon boys between the ages of 14 and 18, estimated to be around 185,000 scouts. Many observers have speculated that the 100-year partnership between the Mormon Church and the Boy Scouts of America was dissolving over values, because of the scout organization’s evolving view of homosexuality and its moves to end historic practices of discrimination. So, does this rift indicate that the Boy Scouts of America is finally catching up with the rest of America on the view that such discrimination is wrong? The Boy Scouts of America ended its full ban on openly gay youth in 2013, and then considered ending its ban on gay scout leaders in 2015. Under pressure from the Mormon Church, the Boy Scouts of America stopped short of prohibiting discrimination against openly gay scout leaders. The Boy Scouts determined that the national organization would no longer ban gay scout leaders but would allow local units to make their determination to “respect the right of religious chartered organizations.” The religious exemption effectively allows local troops, including those affiliated with the Mormon Church, to exclude openly gay members from serving as scout leaders. Even with this exemption, the Mormon Church was incensed, and vocal in its displeasure, about the easing of the ban. The church stated that the “admission of openly gay leaders is inconsistent with the doctrines of the Church and what have traditionally been the values of the Boy Scouts of America” and noted that after further review, the church might abandon scouting. The Mormon Church’s latest announcement suggests that this time has come. It would therefore be a good moment for the Boy Scouts of America to take the opportunity to end anti-gay discrimination within its organization, without exception. The Boy Scouts has debated this issue for so many years already, to which I bear witness from my own struggles to change scouting so that it would accept gay youth and leaders. In 1990, the Boy Scouts expelled me for being gay. I was a 19-year-old assistant scoutmaster in the New Jersey troop where I earned my Eagle Scout badge. For the next decade, I fought my expulsion, challenging the anti-gay policy on the basis that it violated New Jersey’s law against discrimination, including sexual-orientation discrimination. In 2000, my lawsuit ended up before the United States Supreme Court. The justices then held, by a 5-to-4 vote, that the Boy Scouts of America was exempt from the state law prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation because of the First Amendment. The court concluded that the Boy Scouts effectively had a legal right to exclude gay people because the organization viewed them as “immoral” and “unclean.” The leaders of the Boy Scouts of America were ecstatic with the court victory, believing they had put a contentious issue behind them. Less than a year after the Supreme Court decision, however, the Boy Scouts started to lose support and donations. The organization misread how America and young people felt about discrimination, and for years after the ruling, the negative media coverage of the Boy Scouts as a result of the Supreme Court ruling made the decision a Pyrrhic victory. Why did it take 13 years from that ruling for the Boy Scouts to end its ban on gay youth, and another two years for the organization to modify its ban on gay leaders? And why does the organization still allow individual troops to discriminate against openly gay leaders? It’s clear that a primary reason was the influence of the Mormon Church. The Mormon Church was the first sponsoring organization for the Boy Scouts of America, and for over a century, as the church grew, so did the Scouts. Every Mormon ward or congregation includes a Boy Scout troop, and these make up more than a third of all scout troops in America. The Boy Scouts of America has therefore contorted itself to keep the support of the Mormon Church. Keeping this support, however, has come at a steep price. Strict adherence to the Mormon moral code — or as some say, the three G’s: no gays, no girls and no godless — has caused the Boy Scouts to compromise on one of its most important values: that it is wrong to discriminate. Allegiance to this anti-gay policy has also negatively affected the Boy Scouts of America and its once sterling reputation. Since the Supreme Court decision, membership in the Boy Scouts has decreased by about 2.5 million, which is more than half of the members the organization had in 2000. In addition, a 2013 internal survey of scouting’s 280 local councils revealed that they felt “tremendous resentment for the damage done” by the national organization “to the brand” of the Boy Scouts of America. Today the Boy Scouts of America has another opportunity to do the right thing, and prohibit all anti-gay discrimination within its organization. It has been 27 years since I was expelled for being gay. It is well time for the Boy Scouts to finally acknowledge that all anti-gay discrimination is wrong.