THIS past week marked a watershed for the Trump administration and the journalists who cover it. On Monday, The Washington Post broke the news that President Trump revealed highly classified information in a meeting with top Russian officials. By the next day, The New York Times fired back in spectacular fashion with a damning report that Trump asked the F.B.I director, James Comey, to shut down his investigation of former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn. More scoops kept coming. What stands out about these stories is how authoritative, forceful and incontrovertible they are. You can tell the reporters knew the power of what they had — letting the facts speak for themselves without need for flourish, supposition or predictive analysis. They left the spin and speculation to the pundits and cable news, assessing the political fallout only once it actually began. That’s what exemplary journalism looks like, at any time, but especially when it’s directed at a White House suspected of challenging the rule of law. In the case of the Times’s Comey story, the origin of the information is plainly stated — an F.B.I. director’s contemporaneous notes. It made clear which side leaked the information — James Comey’s. And while anonymous sources were used, they were not identified simply as “government officials,” a common label that leaves loyalties unknown. Because the story described them as Comey associates, their motives were transparent. That level of specificity is what made the revelation impossible to brush off, even by Republicans. Many conservative lawmakers, usually reluctant to join in the political drama emanating from the media, broke their silence. The Republican-led Senate Judiciary and Intelligence Committees, and the House Oversight Committee, all called on Comey to testify. Three Republican congressman said they would consider impeachment if it proves true that Trump pressured Comey to drop a federal investigation. By midweek, the deputy attorney general appointed a special counsel to lead an inquiry into potential ties between Trump’s campaign and Russia. Even Fox News, rather than dismissing The Times report as “fake news,” took the approach of actually confirming it. This event offers a clarifying moment for a press trying to define its place at an exigent period in history — not only with a president who breaks standard norms of conduct, candor and temperament, but in a country more polarized than at any time in recent memory. Should the media engage in open opposition to the White House and take sides in a political battle? Or should it report aggressively but dispassionately in hopes of retaining credibility with the broadest audience? Judging by much of the journalism The Times has produced since Trump took office, it would seem there is at least a preference for strict independence. Editors here have doubled down on reporters who produce incisive news and analysis about the administration. They’ve assembled a national security team that has delivered a stream of consequential investigative coverage, most notably this week’s story by Michael Schmidt. And they’ve deployed correspondents across the heartland to capture the sentiments of voters, with an eye toward whether Trump voters are holding steady behind their president. But sometimes there is a slide toward coverage that can be misperceived as rooting for Trump’s demise. In abundant amounts, for example, it has chronicled every tweet, mood shift and food fight in the Oval Office. Some of this coverage is necessary and justifiable. But when it arrives by the barrel on the home page and A1 it can start to look like a campaign. The question is which approach is more effective — when The Times looks as if it has joined the resistance, or when it excavates facts without prejudice? In the legal system, it’s the difference between an investigator and a prosecutor. Some readers, alarmed over a Trump presidency, want the newsroom in full combat mode. They want editors to adopt a blunt vocabulary — regularly calling a lie a lie, for example — and resist any interpretation of events that could “normalize” Trump. They see The Times as no place for voices that dissent from liberal orthodoxy. And if all that gives off the sense of choosing sides, well, that’s what a crisis demands. The other journalistic approach — impartial, aggressive, spin free — is what we saw demonstrated last week. What’s especially appealing about it is its effectiveness. Because the Comey story was so beyond dispute, it captured the attention of those whose instinct might normally have been to reject it. In a period of such polarization, winning credibility with a cross-section of the public is the mark of journalism that matters. Joe Kahn, the managing editor, said this week felt like a benchmark for what the coverage should aspire to be. “We do want, ultimately, to produce a report that speaks to all sides in this debate,” he said. “And the way to do that is not through spin. It’s through consistent digging and sourcing and asking the hard questions, and working until all hours of the night.” Some portion of the public may never accept information produced by news outlets like The Times. But they’re especially put off by that which has a prosecutorial tone. Jeremy Peters, who covers politics for The Times, said that many Republicans were incensed by what they saw as hysteria over Trump. “It’s not just that they’re sticking with Trump, but they’re reflexively standing up to the left’s reaction to him,” Peters said. “They’re fired up to defeat the narrative about his presidency being in chaos and think the media gins up these controversies.” Feeding this dynamic is a cornerstone of Trump’s survival. As news of the Comey memo swirled, Trump told Coast Guard graduates in Connecticut: “Look at the way I’ve been treated lately. Especially by the media. No politician in history — and I say this with great surety — has been treated worse or more unfairly.” He hit the same notes on Twitter the next morning. All of this was fully reported, which is exactly what Trump wants. The more he can make the media look like it’s taken sides, the easier it is for him to undermine its work. It’s not as easy to undermine stories that are as dispassionate and irrefutable as The Times produced last week. The challenge going forward is to avoid overreach, to continue the hard work of revelatory journalism without cheering for a specific outcome.