Gail Collins: Bret, it’s been a while since I had a chance to converse with a fellow Times columnist. Welcome! And in honor of your arrival, you get to choose our first subject. Bret Stephens: Thanks, Gail. It’s flattering to step into David Brooks’s shoes. Kinda daunting, too. Here’s my topic: Acceleration. The pace of news, of scandal, of Trump. It’s like a hot dog-eating contest. We’re shoveling in the Trump news with little time to chew it over and even less time to digest it. I know this is a little dated but the other week I noticed someone on Twitter trying to summarize five days’ worth of Trump news. I can’t find the tweet but here is how I remember it. On Monday it was 18 Days of Flynn. On Tuesday we had the Comey Firing. Wednesday brought the full flowering of the Rosenstein Defense. With Thursday came the Holt Admission. Friday featured the Comey Threatening. And then the cycle started again the following Monday, with Trump’s Oval Office intelligence disclosures to the Russians. Gail: Good list. The phrase “Rosenstein Defense” reminds me of the new rule that anybody who goes to work for Trump should expect that they will indeed become famous, but probably as an adjective in an unflattering headline. Bret: In years past, any one of these stories would have merited a week’s worth of intensive scrutiny — more, in the case of James Comey’s firing and Trump’s intelligence leak to the Russian foreign minister. Instead, no sooner does the administration drop one bomb than it drops another. It becomes difficult to keep up, difficult even to remember. Also, difficult to pay attention when the news isn’t another Trump scandal but is instead a genuine crisis, such as the ransomware attacks on computer systems worldwide. Gail: Still hoping we can find a way to blame those on Trump. Bret: So here are my questions for you: How does the Agogment Rate, if I may coin that term, affect public attitudes toward the administration? Does the rate of scandal erode the weight of scandal — and is there a mathematical expression for this thought? Will the swirl of fiascos finally settle into a fixed impression of the president, even among some of his reflexive supporters? Or is it more like what Dostoyevsky has Raskolnikov say in “Crime and Punishment”: “Man grows used to everything, the scoundrel!”? Gail: I don’t think people are getting used to it, but they have so much to follow, it’s hard to seize every moment. For instance, his Coast Guard commencement speech was swallowed up by the news that we’ve now got a special counsel to investigate … everything. Under anything approaching normalcy, the fact that a president went before a group of young people dedicating their lives to military service and complained that he was the most unfairly persecuted politician in history would have been, um, noticed. Bret: I’m glad you mentioned that speech. It illustrates what may well be another quasi-mathematical equation when it comes to politics and human nature, which is the correlation between narcissism and chaos. A president who cannot see above the parapet of his self-pity isn’t going to run a competent administration, period. He just doesn’t care enough to engage. It’s why Trump won’t staff up his administration. It’s why he won’t learn the details of his own health care plans. But that’s about to end. The appointment of Robert Mueller as special counsel means we’ve gone from the “this is totally nuts” stage of the presidency to the “this is deadly serious” stage. Mueller is to this White House approximately what Birnam Wood is to Dunsinane in “Macbeth.” Gail: Wow, I love your literary allusions. Do you see this ending in high drama — Trump gets impeached or resigns? Hard to imagine the resignation part with this guy. And the idea of struggling to get the nation a President Pence doesn’t fill me with excitement. Bret: I do see it ending in high drama. The reason is simple: Trump can’t help himself. There was an interesting op-ed in The Times last week by John Yoo, a law professor at Berkeley who served in George W. Bush’s Justice Department. He makes the case that the right historical analogy for the Comey firing and associated scandals is the Iran-contra mess, not Watergate, and that Trump can escape the fallout much like Reagan did: by firing lots of staff (Bannon, Priebus, etc.), and then focusing his energies on foreign policy, leaving domestic policy to congressional Republicans. Gail: Ah yes, turning the spotlight to international affairs. A classic change of subject. People who don’t normally pay much attention to presidential diplomacy are nervously watching every stop because — you know, there’s the Agogment Rate. They’re afraid he’ll do something strange or terrible or ridiculous and cause an international incident. Because of that, every time Trump behaves normally it’s seen as a kind of triumph. Lucky guy. Bret: In the end, though, I don’t buy Yoo’s argument. Why? Trump isn’t Reagan. He isn’t even Nixon! He has no message discipline. He doesn’t appear to practice his lines and he certainly doesn’t stick to his script. He creates a new crisis every time he tries to quell or rebut an old one. And he isn’t surrounded by the likes of Howard Baker, Jim Baker and George Shultz — people who knew what they were doing. Trump is inescapably himself. That’s his undoing. Gail: This is inspiring — we agree about everything. Let’s see if I can find some division. What do you think about Joe Lieberman for attorney general? Bret: You mean F.B.I. director? Gail: Whoops, for a second I got him mixed up with Jeff Sessions. Can’t imagine why except that both of them make me want to bang my head against a post. What about Joe Lieberman for F.B.I. director? Bret: I’m for it. I’m for him as attorney general, too. And for president, while we’re at it. I’ve never understood the venom directed his way by his erstwhile friends on the left. He seems to inhabit a healthy center of American politics, something both parties need. Gail: I think we’ve found our moment. There was a period in my life when I thought about writing a book called “Everything Bad Is Joe Lieberman’s Fault.” We have a health care system that’s a stupendously complicated, middleman-ridden mess because Joe Lieberman killed the public option approach when he was in the Senate. Lieberman’s terrible campaign for vice president might have cost Al Gore the election, if it weren’t for the fact that Lieberman’s self-promoting refusal to wage the good fight over Florida’s votes definitely cost Al Gore the election. Which is how we got George W. Bush and the war in Iraq, which Joe Lieberman wholeheartedly supported. I could go on, but this is supposed to be a conversation, not a rant. Bret: I think Al Gore cost himself the election: He failed to win his home state! He snorted and sighed his way through that debate! He distanced himself from the popular incumbent he sought to replace! He’s Prince Charles without the passion. But, anyway …. I like Joe because he’s middle-of-the-road, smart, honorable and experienced. He also blurbed my book, so he’s golden forever as far as I’m concerned. If he gets the job, he won’t be anyone’s idea of a Trump lackey. And would you have preferred such experienced former prosecutors as … Chris Christie? Rudy Giuliani? I think liberals feel about Joe Lieberman approximately the way we conservatives feel about John Roberts. But maybe politics shouldn’t be about getting everything you want or getting nothing at all. Gail: I do think Lieberman is so self-aggrandizing that if he had to choose between looking like a hero and going easy on the guy who picked him, he would totally go for the hero. So there’s that. And speaking of the plus side, one advantage to the whole Trump fiasco is that it’s going to make it impossible to get a tax bill through Congress. Republicans always talk about tax reform, but what they really mean is cutting taxes for people who can easily afford to fork over what they’re being billed now. Bret: I guess it depends on how you define the word “advantage.” We have one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world. That tax must be paid at the expense of something or other, like workers’ wages. It drives companies to park their cash — and sometimes move their headquarters — abroad: A Make Ireland Great Again scheme. That said, you’re right: Love it or hate it, Trump’s epic incompetence makes it unlikely that any significant pro-growth reforms will move through Congress. That’s just another reason for thoughtful conservatives to despise him. And I’m glad we’ve found a subject we can disagree about. There will be others. Did I mention that my next column is going to be called “David Irving Is Right About Global Warming”? Watch Gail Collins and Bret Stephens in conversation on Facebook Live. 