Today the House Ways and Means Committee is scheduled to hold a hearing on improving the competitiveness of American businesses. It should consider health policy as well as tax policy in its deliberations. There is strong bipartisan support in Congress for cutting the corporate tax rate to improve competitiveness. If done in a revenue-neutral manner, as the Tax Reform Act of 1986 was, that simultaneously gets rid of inefficient tax loopholes that distort business decision making, this would be a good thing. But what is really holding back the international competitiveness of American businesses isn’t so much the tax code as our health system. The United States is unique among major countries in that health insurance for the working population is provided almost entirely by employers. And until the Affordable Care Act, they weren’t even required to do so; small businesses are still not required. No one ever sat down and thought up this system; it came about by accident during World War II. Because of wage and price controls, employers couldn’t raise wages. But because so many young men were in the military and the large demand for war production, many businesses had an acute labor shortage. To provide additional compensation to get the workers they needed, some businesses started offering health insurance on top of cash wages. Before the war, health insurance was rarely provided. Although obviously a form of income to the worker, the Internal Revenue Service nevertheless ruled that it was not taxable, although businesses could still deduct the cost. This anomalous tax treatment was a fabulous tax loophole for both businesses and workers, especially at a time when tax rates were historically high. Eventually Congress codified the I.R.S. ruling and we have been stuck with an employer-based health insurance system ever since. Although from time to time, politicians have suggested getting rid of the exclusion for health insurance and using the revenue to create an individually based health insurance system, such efforts have been short-lived and unsuccessful. The problem for competitiveness is that businesses are saddled with a huge and rising cost that they cannot pass on to consumers because they must compete with foreign businesses that do not bear this cost. In most other countries, health insurance is provided by the government and financed with a value-added tax that is rebated at the border. (With a V.A.T., the tax applies at the border on imports and is rebated on exports so that exports are free of tax.) Thus, none of the cost of providing health insurance is borne by businesses or embedded in the cost of internationally traded goods. Consequently, foreign businesses have a huge competitive advantage over those in the United States that are forced to provide health insurance for their workers. Of course, such businesses are also at a disadvantage against companies that choose not to provide this benefit for their employees. This is a key reason employment in the American manufacturing sector has declined sharply over the past several decades. Manufacturers, such as those in the steel and auto industries, are among those most likely to provide good health insurance because of strong unions. Back when Congress considered the Affordable Care Act in 2009, one of the first decisions made was to take the exclusion for health insurance off the table. The House recently passed a Republican plan to replace the A.C.A. that also did not touch the exclusion or do anything to reduce the burden of health insurance on businesses. However, Congress may get another bite at the apple when it takes up tax reform. Various tax expenditures for health cost hundreds of billions of dollars in lost revenue per year, according to the Congressional Research Service. Eliminating them could finance a significant reduction in tax rates. Of course, eliminating the exclusion for health insurance would increase the tax burden on employers and many would drop it. Obviously, Congress would have to come up with something to replace such coverage. But since an individually based health insurance system, which all Republicans favor, would necessarily require tax credits to allow the insurance to be afforded, tax reform is the perfect time to consider such a scheme. If the Republicans are serious about using tax reform to improve the competitiveness of American businesses, the best thing they can do is reform employer-based health insurance.