OXFORD, MISS. — It may sound surprising, but many colleges in the Deep South are welcoming environments for gay students. Until my freshman year at the University of Mississippi, I never felt free to be myself. But I thrived in college. I made gay friends, met gay professors, and with the help of an amazing university counselor, I finally became comfortable with being out. Still, supporting myself through school was a huge challenge, as it is for many L.G.B.T. students who are estranged from their families. Growing up, I didn’t know anyone who was gay. I was raised in tiny Mooreville, Miss., a tight-knit community of 3,500 or so in the northeast corner of the state. I was always made fun of for being “out there,” but even after I realized I was gay, around age 8, I never told anyone. My stepfather was one of my crueler bullies — he constantly called me “girlie,” “sissy” and sometimes “fag.” In my junior year of high school, I met my first boyfriend. I introduced him to a few friends, and one of them outed me. Within hours, seemingly everyone knew my secret — including my mom. She confronted me in the garage and asked me to leave home. Overcome with sadness and confusion, I packed as much as I could into a black trash bag and left. I was lucky that my aunt and my uncle, a Southern Baptist pastor, took me in without questioning and loved me as one of their own. I joined them and their children on a vacation to Disney World and a mission trip to Ohio. They attended my tennis and cross-country state championships, and my uncle even bought me a car. My parents didn’t want much to do with me, but I did see my mother once at one of my cross-country meets. She had come to see my brother run in a 5K. She didn’t speak to me. When she finally broke the silence, six months later, it was to threaten to tell my aunt and uncle that I was gay unless I did so myself. It’s not right for a Christian pastor to have a gay person in his house without his knowledge, she said. I was devastated. What if I ended up homeless again? I sat down with my aunt and uncle, but the words stuck in my throat. I couldn’t speak. Finally, my aunt asked, gently, “Are you telling us you’re gay?” They suspected as much, she said. They still loved me, and prayed the Lord would work through me, but she and my uncle were firm: Being gay was a sin. I was terrified, so when they suggested Christian counseling — better known as conversion therapy — I agreed. Twice a week for a few months I sat in a room with a pastor and my uncle as they told me I was not actually gay — I was just making a confused choice. The sin is so deep that you have to dig up the root to overcome it, the pastor would say. He drew a tree to symbolize sin. The word “homosexuality” curled around the roots. I cried every car ride home. To please those around me, I got a girlfriend and pretended to live in a perfect heterosexual world. I began to police the way my voice sounded, but the pretending left me empty and numb. I didn’t know who to talk to; I didn’t know how to act. A deep depression sank in, and I became obsessed with thoughts of moving away to somewhere people would see beyond my sexuality. That somewhere turned out to be Oxford, Miss. The University of Mississippi is a beautiful place: The 10-acre Grove, a park in the center of campus lined with oaks, is best known for its football tailgates. But it also became a place of refuge, where I would sit and read and ruminate on the possibilities of my new life. For the first time ever, I found friends who loved me for who I am. I gained confidence and took on leadership roles. I joined the student government. I gave campus tours as an Ole Miss ambassador and welcomed new students as an Ole Miss orientation leader. I was never made to feel I didn’t belong. While participation and acceptance made me feel whole, my college years were far from secure. I was essentially on my own and I worried constantly about money. My old car always needed expensive repairs, and I had to keep it running so that I could get to the two jobs I worked for 35 hours every week. I already felt too indebted to my aunt and uncle for taking me in to ask for financial help. I stayed close with them and saw them over some vacations, but they had two children of their own. I also felt guilty for lying to them: I had allowed them to believe the conversion therapy had worked. My only option was to take out more loans. Some days I was literally digging through my piggy bank to eat. To make matters worse, my mother had taken me off her health insurance. Ole Miss provides free medical care, but it doesn’t cover prescriptions. So I stopped seeing my psychologist and taking depression medication. I quit going to the eye doctor and dentist. There were nights when I lay in bed, unable to sleep, because my mouth ached from my wisdom teeth, which I guess were infected or overcrowded. My story of scraping by is not uncommon. One-third of L.G.B.T. students delay attending a four-year college for reasons of affordability or debt, according to the Point Foundation in Los Angeles, which provides scholarships for gay students. This issue needs a lot more attention. Many universities, like my own, are safe havens for gay students, but few administrations seem to be aware of how many L.G.B.T. students struggle to make ends meet without family support. Many of us also face obstacles when it comes to applying for aid. Undergraduates must apply for federal aid using their parents’ tax and income data, but L.G.B.T. students who are alienated from their families can’t always get that information. The process to verify that I was independent required that I provide concrete evidence of a significantly “broken relationship” with my family. I had my uncle and a church friend write to the school, but a “broken relationship” can be a tricky thing to prove. Too many L.G.B.T. students who are alienated from their families fall through the cracks. That is reflected in the 40 percent of homeless youth who are L.G.B.T. I may be some $40,000 deep in debt, but I made it through school. During our graduation ceremony last week, I couldn’t help being overwhelmed with pride. I even had an audience. My mom, sister and biological father were in the crowd. Repairing our relationship will certainly take more than seeing them once a year, but they saw me receive my diploma. That’s a start. I’m excited for my next chapter, working for Teach for America as a middle-school teacher in Houston. But as I pack up my apartment and shove trash bags full of stuff into my car, I am already feeling nostalgic for Ole Miss. It’s home.