MANCHESTER, ENGLAND — It just doesn’t feel real. I’m used to waking up or scrolling through Twitter to learn some terrible news that another terrorist attack has happened at a sports stadium or subway station in America, Europe or Asia. But never here. In my home. At the stadium where I have spent countless hours since I was 13, singing the lyrics back to my idols, spilling popcorn on the row in front and dancing till my toes blistered. Just like those fans in the Manchester Arena on any other Monday night. But it will never be any other Monday night again. It will forever be the Monday night when at least 22 innocent gig-goers were killed by a terrorist’s bomb. No fan should go to a concert, dressed in Ariana Grande’s signature bunny ears and ballerina skirt, giggling with her best friend — and never come home. I reviewed Ms. Grande’s previous arena performance in Manchester, in June 2015. I remember vividly how much her fans adored her, all those infectiously excited little faces. And now some of them are dead. This is something I will never get out of my head. The arena is one of Britain’s busiest and most popular live-music spots, which is saying something in music-mad Manchester. Mancunians are as bonkers about music as we are about football (or soccer, for Americans). It’s our bread and butter. This is the home of Oasis, the Stone Roses, New Order, Happy Mondays and the Smiths. No act of horror and evil, however gross and cruel, will ever take away that popular-culture heritage from us. The musical heart of this city will beat on. Experiencing live music is central to living in Manchester; it saddens me that this act of terror may have robbed thousands of those who survived this attack of the desire ever to go again. I hope they will, in time, rediscover the joy music can bring. Last night, a convoy of some 60 ambulances was rapidly heading toward the carnage when everyone else was running away. While I was working, news gathering at the Salford Royal Hospital about four miles down the road from the arena, I saw a girl being wheeled into the emergency room, covered in blood and bandages, fear and shock etched on her face. The dedicated staff at the specialist trauma unit had trained for this moment, and it snapped into action to take in the many casualties arriving through its doors as though it were the most natural thing in the world to do. If they felt any panic, the doctors and nurses showed none as they went about their duties with care and dignity. It was a night of confusion, of unanswered questions and anxious eyes, of pacing the hospital halls, as relatives and friends waited for news of their loved ones. But it was also a night of solidarity. Within seconds of the news breaking, local residents offered access to their electricity sockets so that stranded fans could charge their phones and call their worried parents. Others arrived to offer free taxi rides, or a place to have a cup of tea or take a nap. Manchester’s people turn the abstract ideal of community into something warm and real. Mancunians care passionately about our heritage, our history and our happiness, and music is a significant part of that. Right now we are hurting, angry and grieving for people we do not know but with whom we shared a collective love of music. We do not know any other way, and we are proud of our resilience. It put me in mind of the suffragist leader Emmeline Pankhurst, one of Manchester’s own. Brave and bold, she never let anyone or anything hold her back. She epitomized a true Manc. Like her, we will not be broken, and we will fight on. There is an overwhelming sense of defiance in Manchester today. The TV host James Corden spoke of Manchester last night as a place that “you will definitely have heard of,” and it saddens me that, as much as I believe that is true, millions more will now know it as the latest city to be targeted by cowardly terrorists. But what I also believe is that they will then see the beauty of its people and the values the city nurtures. One of Manchester’s emblems is the bee, a nod to the city’s hard-working past as a center of the Industrial Revolution. Manchester’s workers were the original “busy bees.” And that, now, is the spirit that will define our approach to the future: busily getting on with our lives, defeating terror with cooperation.