To many American Jews, it is a truism that Barack Obama was the anti-Israel president. It was Mr. Obama who signed the Iran deal, which Israel portrayed as a mortal danger. It was Mr. Obama whose most contentious relationship with a foreign leader was with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. And it was Mr. Obama who made outreach to the Muslim world a centerpiece of his presidency, while putting more than a little daylight between Washington and Jerusalem. All this means that President Trump still enjoys a deep well of support among many pro-Israel voters, Jewish and otherwise, who see him as an antidote to all things Obama. Mr. Trump may be a boor, goes the logic, but didn’t he promise to tear up the Iran deal? Wouldn’t the man who called himself Israel’s “biggest friend” finally move the United States embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem? And wouldn’t the straight-talker buck the stalemated peace process and acknowledge the truth about the conflict — namely, that Palestinian recalcitrance, not settlements, is the real obstacle to peace? To paraphrase the country singer Toby Keith: How do you like him now? That’s a question that Mr. Trump’s pro-Israel supporters ought to begin asking themselves in the wake of the president’s visit this week to Jerusalem. On the plus side: an exceptionally warm and well-received speech by the president at the Israel Museum; a call for the Palestinian Authority to stop funding the families of terrorists; and a reaffirmation of the ancient Jewish connection to the land and of the enduring American commitment to the modern state. Then there was the substance. On Iran: the nuclear deal will remain in place. On Jerusalem: the United States embassy isn’t moving out of Tel Aviv any time soon. On the building of Jewish settlements in the West Bank: the Trump administration remains opposed. On a peace process that would presumably result in the creation of a Palestinian state: Mr. Trump is eager to strike “the ultimate deal.” Nor is that all. The president landed in Israel from Saudi Arabia only to announce: “We just got back from the Middle East.” Israelis might have wanted to get past the president’s intelligence disclosures to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov — disclosures that reportedly put the life of an Israeli spy embedded with the Islamic State at risk. But Mr. Trump wouldn’t let them, loudly announcing that he “never mentioned the word or name Israel” in the Oval Office conversation. Then there was Rex Tillerson’s epic gaffe. The secretary of state didn’t offer much comfort to those who believed the administration understood the historic importance of Jerusalem to Israelis and Jews when he said to reporters on his plane en route to Israel from Saudi Arabia: “Onto the second stop, Tel Aviv, home of Judaism.” Not quite. Tel Aviv was established in 1909 by a group of secular Jewish families; Judaism’s origin story is about 2,000 years older. There are plenty of people who might make an argument in favor of Mr. Trump’s decision to maintain all the essential features of the policy status quo that he inherited from Mr. Obama. But based on this visit, Mr. Trump’s right-wing pro-Israel supporters aren’t — or shouldn’t be — among them.