During the George W. Bush administration, liberal TV watchers found a cozy sort of comfort in the dreamy alternate reality of President Josiah Bartlet’s America, where a collection of eloquent, passionate, fast-talking Clinton Democrats stalked sun-spangled West Wing halls and governed a country where the 1990s never really ended and all right-wing dragons could be tamed or slain. Those were simpler and more optimistic times. Now, in the era of the Trump administration, liberal TV watchers find a perverse sort of comfort in the horrific alternate reality of the Republic of Gilead, where a cabal of theonomist Christians have established a totalitarian state that forbids women to read, sets a secret police to watch their every move and deploys them as slave-concubines to childless elites. It is understandable but also somewhat unfortunate that this alternate reality — the world of “The Handmaid’s Tale,” adapted by Hulu from Margaret Atwood’s Reagan-era novel — would become a coping mechanism for people beset by recent political developments. Understandable because in dark times people enjoy making the leap to dystopia, because it lets them compare themselves to heroic resistance fighters and martyred innocents while also reminding themselves, on a weekly basis, that actually it could be way worse than Donald Trump …. But it’s unfortunate because reviving Atwood’s gripping story in our own era, bringing yesterday’s dystopia to life today, should be an opportunity to see our moment more clearly — and instead the comparisons between Gilead and Trump’s America that dominate so many “Handmaid’s Tale” reactions obscure much more than they reveal. This is not a criticism of the source material. Atwood’s story is, of course, uncongenial to readers who share the Christian faith of its theocratic villains, and they (we) have a strong incentive to point out the various implausibilities in its feminist fever dream of how the religious right might rule. But an effective literary dystopia does not have to be perfectly plausible to make for fascinating reading, and the tendency for readers to turn away from stories that make their own side the bad guy can reflect a failure of imagination and self-scrutiny. In this sense, conservative Christians should approach “The Handmaid’s Tale” as something more than just a hate-read for the same reason that socialists should read “1984” or even “Atlas Shrugged” and techno-optimists “Fahrenheit 451” or “Brave New World.” So long as you don’t accidentally decide that what you’re reading is not a warning but a blueprint, it’s always a useful exercise to think about how the ideas you treasure can be turned to wicked or inhuman ends. The religious reader who approaches Atwood’s novel with an open mind will still find that it sometimes veers into obtuse or silly territory. But “The Handmaid’s Tale” also works harder than its critics sometimes claim to make the theocratic turn seem understandable and plausible, an outgrowth of complexity and not just simplistic liberal stereotypes and paranoias. Two of the novel’s moves, in particular, are perceptive artistic extrapolations from 1980s trends. The first situates the Gilead regime’s quest to control the means of reproduction in the context of an enormous fertility collapse, caused by the combination of environmental catastrophe and rampant S.T.D.s. Such an existential crisis is both a (relatively) plausible hinge into religious revolution and a shrewd insight into the anxieties lurking below the surface of the Reagan era. Writing at a time when “population bomb” obsessions were still current, Atwood (like P. D. James in “Children of Men” in the early 1990s) grasped that the post-sexual revolution baby bust was more likely to be a central culture-shaping force. At the same time, as Emily Nussbaum notes in her New Yorker review of the TV adaptation, Atwood also imagined her religious totalitarians borrowing in certain ways from the feminism of her era — including both the tendency of Reagan-era feminist thinkers to join Christian conservatives in a stinging critique of Penthouse-style smut and the (related) fears about rape and male predation that crested with the era’s crime wave and inspired “Take Back the Night”-type movements in response. In “The Handmaid’s Tale,” even as feminism itself is smashed and females subjugated, those narratives get appropriated and incorporated into Gileadan rhetoric about protecting women and restraining men: It’s “Biblical fascism sold with faux-feminist icing,” as Nussbaum puts it, more effective because it claims to be responsive to its victims’ professed fears. But precisely because of the ways that Atwood’s novel plumbed and surfaced the specific anxieties of 1985, her story is necessarily time-bound and context-dependent and in certain ways more outdated than prophetic. So adapted for our later era, “The Handmaid’s Tale” feels like more like an alternate-history universe in the style of “The Man in the High Castle” than an exercise in futurism. Which should make the adaptation an opportunity to study the contrasts between our actual post-Reagan trajectory and Atwood’s imagined path to Gilead, and to see our own particularities afresh. The first contrast lies in the development of American feminism, which has acquiesced to certain trends that it found troubling 30 years ago — including not only the ubiquity of pornography but also the practice of surrogacy, the class-bound commodification of childbearing, that Atwood’s Gilead biblicizes and places under patriarchal control. As a consequence, as Charlotte Allen put it in a polemical but perceptive column recently, to the extent that modern life has given us a Gileadan hierarchy of wealthy older women who have younger “handmaids” bearing children for them and domestic “Marthas” working as the help, it exists in the enlightened precincts of upper-class liberalism — as a support structure for lean-in feminism, not a form of patriarchal control. The second contrast lies in the fizzling of the post-1970s religious revival, the defeat of the religious right on practically every issue save abortion and the waning of the religious case for female domesticity. Atwood invented Gilead at a time when conservative Christians still plausibly imagined American culture as theirs to “take back” and when a backlash against women in the work force was a meaningful part of social-conservative politics. But in our era, religious conservatism feels haunted by fears of looming persecution, younger religious conservatives have largely adapted forms of gender egalitarianism, and the argument from religious premises that a woman’s place is in the home is confined to intra-evangelical spats, with little broader influence. Which leads to the final contrast — namely, that the misogynistic currents that Atwood envisioned being incorporated into her fundamentalist dictatorship, the feelings of male impotence and uselessness that the Gileadan commander in “The Handmaid’s Tale” invokes as a justification for his religious revolution, have instead become more culturally potent as secularization has advanced and men have been cut loose from Christianity and domesticity both. Thus instead of a mass movement of marching Christian soldiers, we have a diffuse quasi-movement of men’s-right’s activists, pickup artists and woman-hating online trolls that’s (sort of) coalescing around the alt-right banner. Instead of a world where old-fashioned religious Puritans are trying to reinstate Leviticus, we have a world where the Puritans’ real cultural heirs, the moralistic post-Protestants of academe, are trying to impose a different, consent-based set of sexual regulations — while a laddish, bro-ish and, yes, Trump-ish bachelor culture laughs their prudery to scorn. It is a world, in other words, in which all of the post-sexual-revolution elements that Atwood played with effectively 30 years ago are still swirling, still in flux — but the players that she cast are all playing different parts. A strange marriage of feminism and capitalism controls the commanding heights, and the commodification and regulation of sexuality advances under its auspices. Meanwhile, religious conservatives are either in full retreat or else playing handmaids (if you will) to a right-wing politics that promises them protection if they toss incense to the sort of Hefnerian figure whom they once condemned (and whom Atwood’s Gilead would have probably scapegoated and then hanged). And the absence of babies, the decline of the natural family, the fear of the empty hospital ward (to pluck a particularly arresting image from the Hulu show) is a subtle undercurrent in both left-wing and right-wing politics — but only an undercurrent, feeding illiberalisms that have not yet come of age. So by all means, watch “The Handmaid’s Tale” for its story, its performances and its alternate-universe frissons. But do not be deceived: We may be sailing to dystopia, but it is not Gilead but an undiscovered country, awaiting some new visionary to map its coastlines and dark heart.