This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. President Trump’s first budget has two themes: redistribution and innumeracy. Let’s start with the redistribution. The budget calls for shifting many billions of dollars a year from the middle class and the poor to the very richest Americans. The very rich would receive this money through tax cuts. The rest of the country would lose out thanks to cuts in government programs that touch almost every citizen, including Social Security, Medicaid and food stamps. “On top of all of this,” Jamelle Bouie of Slate writes, “Trump’s budget makes substantial cuts to job-training programs, rental assistance, heating assistance for the elderly, education, and projects at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as well as funding for rural health and substance-abuse programs.” As for the innumeracy: The budget commits a jaw-dropping error of economic logic. Proponents of tax cuts have long argued that, while they may cause a short-term deficit, they pay for themselves in the long run by pushing economic growth (an argument not borne out by history). The Trump budget goes even further. It imagines that the tax cuts won’t even have any short-term costs. When affluent families start paying less in taxes, the shortfall will magically, and immediately, be made up. “This is a mistake no serious business person would make,” Lawrence Summers, the former treasury secretary, explains in The Financial Times. “It appears to be the most egregious accounting error in a presidential budget in the nearly 40 years I have been tracking them.” In an Op-Ed in The Times, Maya MacGuineas of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget calls the assumption “at odds with everything the administration has proposed and said on the issue.” In The Upshot, Susan Chira and Quoctrung Bui look at the effects of Trump’s budget on women. When a president releases his budget, as journalists like to point out, the proposals do not become law. They are wish lists. Congress, not the White House, writes the more meaningful draft of the federal budget. But a president’s budget still matters. It’s a sign of how an administration plans to govern. It is a statement of his administration’s values and, apparently, attitude toward reality.