Asia Kate Dillon, an actor from Ithaca, N.Y., is familiar to much of the viewing public as Taylor Mason, a fast-rising financial intern on the popular show “Billions.” Dillon plays the first gender nonbinary character on television, and in real life, as on the show, the actor also uses the pronoun “they.” Not in the pages of The New York Times, however. In an Op-Ed last Sunday that included a prominent reference to Dillon, the actor was referred to on second reference as “she.” It caught the attention of some readers, given the piece’s explicit reference to Dillon’s nonbinary identity. Here’s the criticism of reader Yee Ping of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. “I find it ironic that an article discussing censorship promptly proceeds to erase Asia Kate Dillon’s gender identity, referring to them as ‘her’ multiple times in the article,” Yee Ping wrote. “A simple Google to their Wikipedia article would have revealed the preferred pronoun.” Society’s fast-evolving views of gender identity seem at the moment to be outpacing the rules of grammarians, and in turn those of stylebook editors. The Times guidelines don’t offer a simple yes or no to the question of whether “they” or some other nonstandard pronoun is acceptable in its pages. Phil Corbett, associate masthead editor for standards, said that as a first choice such pronouns are to be avoided, noting that many readers are still unfamiliar with them and their usage can cause confusion. But he also adds an important second point: “If it seems appropriate and there’s no good way around it, we wouldn’t propose a pronoun that the person (in the story) rejects or is offended by.” In those instances where a writer or editor considers alternative pronouns necessary, they are to seek Corbett’s approval. At the moment, however, these guidelines are not in written form, and there seems to be some confusion in the newsroom about how to approach a subject of immense importance to the individuals being written about. Opinion editors, who generally follow the style and usage guidelines of the newsroom, were under the impression that “they” could not be used as a singular pronoun. That’s how they ended up calling Dillon “she.” Another moment of confusion arose recently in another section when someone requested that they be referred to as “they.” In that case, the matter was resolved by avoiding any pronoun but not before upsetting the subject of the piece. The Associated Press moved to clarify its stance on the issue, announcing in March that it was updating its stylebook (which many news organizations adopt) to allow for the use of plural gender-neutral pronouns. Similar to the Times policy, however, The A.P. stipulates that editors should first try to edit sentences to avoid using any pronoun, and only use “they” as a last resort. Here’s a key passage from the A.P. entry: In stories about people who identify as neither male nor female or ask not to be referred to as he/she/him/her: Use the person’s name in place of a pronoun, or otherwise reword the sentence, whenever possible. If they/them/their use is essential, explain in the text that the person prefers a gender-neutral pronoun. Be sure that the phrasing does not imply more than one person. Understandably, this isn’t a simple issue for news organizations: Either confuse many of your readers with sentences like “They is going to the theater” or risk falling behind shifting cultural norms. Corbett approaches the dilemma this way: “The Times is not looking to lead the way, set the rules or break new ground. Our hope is to reflect accepted, standard usage among educated readers.” At least while the ground is shifting, the Times policy seems about right — allow nongender pronouns but first try reworking sentences to avoid them. That said, I would advocate two important changes. First, codify the policy on gender pronouns in a written entry to the formal stylebook. If that sounds bureaucratic, it’s not. Editors and writers regularly refer to the stylebook for clarity on word usage. It’s a critical reference tool that short circuits the bad information that word-of-mouth answers can spread. Right now, it seems there is still some confusion. Are nonbinary pronouns ever allowed? And if so, under what circumstances? Among the rank and file, you’re apt to get different answers, as I did, depending on who you ask. Second, I wonder about the unintended consequence of requiring the signoff of a masthead editor for every singular usage of “they.” That alone is enough to quell the possibility that the subject of a story might actually be identified by the pronoun they prefer. At a time when American culture is outpacing the language to describe it, easily referenced rules can prevent the kinds of embarrassing mistakes that could leave The Times seeming out of touch.