In September of 2006, nearly six years into the presidency of George W. Bush, 29 percent of voters — nearly all Democrats — thought that he should be impeached. Similarly, in November, 2014, six years after Barack Obama won office, 30 percent of voters — mostly Republicans — thought that he, too, deserved that fate. President Trump, reached the 30 percent level in February 2017, one month into his presidency, the Public Religion Research Institute found. That after six years three in ten voters favored the impeachment of Bush and Obama was a reflection of the depth of polarization in the country. The speed at which Trump reached that number is something else altogether. A May 16 survey by Public Policy Polling, a partisan Democratic firm generally rated as credible, found that the pro-impeachment numbers for Trump had shot up to 48 percent, with 41 percent opposed. What does the future hold? As long as Republicans and Democrats are “pulling with roughly equal force,” Nate Silver observes at the website FiveThirtyEight, Trump isn’t going to be removed from office, which would require a two-thirds majority in the Senate. But if something snaps — if Republicans have reason to think Trump has become a liability even in red states — look out. Although Democrats are by no means unified on the issue, much of the activist base of the Democratic Party smells blood. At least 23 House Democrats and three Senators have signaled that they are receptive to impeachment, most prominently Representatives Al Green of Texas and Maxine Waters of California, who have called for the start of formal proceedings. Matthew Yglesias, a liberal columnist, wrote “The case for impeaching Trump — and fast” on May 22 on Vox. Brian Buetler wrote in the New Republic on the same day, “Democrats Should Proudly Call for Trump’s Impeachment.” The subhead on the Yglesias essay reads “This is the exact situation impeachment was meant for. Let’s hurry up.” Yglesias goes on: A slow, ugly, painful divorce only means that Trump’s sins will more and more become the sins of the entire party, and impeachment will look like less and less of an appropriate remedy for wrongdoing that can only be redeemed by a broad and deep electoral landslide. Buetler, in turn, favorably quotes Waters, who disagrees with those who say that it is too early to begin impeachment proceedings: “No. We can’t wait that long. We don’t need to wait that long. He will have destroyed this country by then.” So far, these arguments have not been persuasive to top Democrats in the House and Senate. Nancy Pelosi, the minority leader, told reporters at her regular press briefing last week: I hope some would curb their enthusiasm until we have all of the facts and have confidence that when the American people understand what is there, whether it’s grounds for impeachment or grounds for disappointment, then they’ll know. Similarly, Dick Durbin, the Senate Democratic whip, told reporters that he has “been talking to the base since November the 9th and telling them this is a marathon, it’s not a sprint.” He went on: We have an orderly process in our government. We’re going to follow it. They don’t like to hear it, but I think that’s the facts. The caution displayed by Pelosi and Durbin is widely shared among Democratic elites. Robert Stein, a professor of political science at Rice University, was more explicit in an email: At present the case for impeaching the President is constitutionally insufficient and politically dangerous for Democrats. That is, most Republicans and weak and strong supporters of the President would believe impeachment at this time to be solely political in origin. Stein continued: Under these conditions impeachment would be framed by the President, his supporters and Congressional Republicans as a coup d’état to reverse the outcome of the 2016 election and the policies on which President Trump and the Republican Party campaigned. The real test for impeachment, Stein argues, is if new information from the special prosecutor or Trump himself erodes support among those who voted for him in 2016. A tiny faction of House Republicans — Justin Amash of Michigan, Carlos Curbelo of Florida and Walter Jones of North Carolina — has warned that the sum of the allegations against Trump, if proven true, could be grounds for impeachment. A House vote to impeach the president requires a simple majority, 218 votes. Given the current composition of the House, 25 Republicans would have to join the 193 Democrats to impeach Trump and of course that calculation assumes Democratic unanimity, which is far from certain. The proceedings would then move to the Senate, which must decide whether to convict the president in what amounts to a trial, with the Senate serving as jury. Since a conviction requires that at least two thirds of the Senate, 67 members, vote in the affirmative, at least 19 Republican Senators would have to join the 48 members of the Democratic caucus for the conviction to stand. And let’s not forget that Democratic Senators like Joe Manchin of West Virginia, Joe Donnelly of Indiana, Claire McCaskill of Missouri and Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota — all up for re-election in states that voted for Trump — would be wary of supporting impeachment. There are huge political hurdles for any Republican considering a bid to remove the president. In conversations and via email, Robert Jones, the C.E.O. of P.R.R.I., provided data showing how difficult it would be for Republican members of the House and Senate to support impeachment. Republican voters include three overlapping constituencies that provided strong support to Trump, Jones said: 43 percent are white working class; 32 percent are white evangelical Protestants; and 15 percent identify with the Tea Party. Overall, 62 percent of Republicans “belong to at least one of these groups.” In other words, nearly two thirds of Republican voters are from constituencies that gave Trump his deepest levels of support. Jones noted that the 62 percent figure is certainly a conservative estimate of the number of people within the GOP who could potentially be susceptible to “deep state” conspiracy explanations in the wake of a theoretical Trump impeachment. Jones also pointed out that even if we discount this number as too large, it’s not a wild exaggeration to say that the GOP establishment could be facing nearly half of their base supporters at least seriously entertaining the idea that they were complicit in a coup to remove a legitimately elected president. If Congress were to launch impeachment proceedings, there could be a conservative backlash. For example, the Nixon impeachment and the multiple scandals associated with Watergate produced only a short term gain for Democrats. In 1974, Democrats picked up 49 House and four Senate seats. In 1976, Georgia’s Democratic governor, Jimmy Carter, won the presidency by a slim 50.1 to 48.0 percent over Gerald Ford, while his party gained just one House seat. The ascendance of the conservative movement continued unabated, steadily gaining strength from the late 1960s into the early 1990s. As the Watergate revelations faded into memory, conservatism revived with a vengeance. In 1978, Republicans picked up 15 House seats and 3 in the Senate. In 1980, Ronald Reagan was elected President, Republicans gained a majority in the Senate, and, in coalition with conservative Democrats, largely from the South, a working majority in the House. For Democrats pressing impeachment now, success could add energy to renewed mobilization of conservative populists, convinced that an elite establishment has sold them down the river. The reaction to a tweet on May 20th by Dinesh D’Souza, a prominent conservative writer and filmmaker, demonstrated the intensity of hard right opposition to even the suggestion of impeachment. The tweet: The response, more than 902 replies and 4,574 retweets worth, was swift and illuminating: Step 1, find out who is behind the coup. Step 2, try them for sedition. Step 3, execute them. A coup against 63 million Americans, who probably own 90% of the guns in the country, might be a strange and stupid error. We won’t have it, we will stand with our President, and we will hang the traitors. Given the level of hard right support for Trump, I asked an influential Republican operative, who requested anonymity to speak freely, how his party might capitalize on a Trump impeachment. He made four points. First, he noted that even after Watergate and Gerald Ford’s pardon of Nixon, Ford almost got elected in 1976 and that polls suggested that with a little more time, he would have beaten Carter. His point was that a president’s impeachment is not fatal to a party’s prospects. His second point was that even if some Republicans were complicit in a Trump impeachment, the party would need to maintain that Trump “was railroaded by the Democrats, not the Republicans” in order to preserve party unity. Third, if impeachment becomes a likely prospect, Republicans of all stripes should start reinforcing Mike Pence’s image as legitimately presidential. Fourth, he argued that Democrats would be foolish to push impeachment: The Democrats want Trump in there, kicking, screaming and dragging it out as long as possible. Trump is the gift that keeps on giving. The accompanying graphic, which first came to my attention when a version of it was published on May 21 by Charles Franklin, a professor of law and public policy at Marquette University, demonstrates the continuing strength of Republican support for Trump. The graphic, based on Gallup poll data, shows low levels of Trump approval among Democrats and independents — from roughly 3 to 23 percent — climbing to more than 70 percent among liberal-to-moderate Republicans, and surging to 90 percent among conservative Republicans. When one third of the electorate holds a politician in such high esteem as Republicans hold Trump, forcing the president out of office through impeachment, application of the 25th Amendment or some other untested procedure, invites unpredictable political repercussions. To talk about these repercussions, I called Alex Castellanos, a Republican media consultant who has worked for many presidential and senate candidates. Castellanos declared: The country will not impeach Donald Trump because the alternative is you, the alternative is me, the alternative is the Washington establishment that failed the country. The voters see the Washington establishment as an abusive husband who has beaten the crap out of them for decades. If Congress were to impeach Trump, “we would have to carve in stone over the entrance to the Capitol ‘Abandon all hope ye who enter here’.” Castellanos went on to make a point that goes to the heart of the danger of impeachment. Not only would impeachment serve to sharpen the anger of the right-wing populists who turned out in droves last year, but it would mark a failure to address the grievances that produced Trump’s victory: The little people need Trump to protect them from the establishment, their predator. Tell me when the establishment has learned anything, said they are sorry, said they are going to change. Until that happens, the little people have no place else to go.