While it’s been obvious for years that election law — the rules by which votes are counted, district lines are drawn and campaigns are paid for — represents a front in the culture wars, we don’t usually think of it that way. That’s because the term culture war signifies the politicization of competing belief systems — over abortion, for example, or religion or the appropriate social roles for men and women. (I use the word “belief” advisedly, recognizing that an anti-abortion position is purely opportunistic for a fair number of the Republican politicians who embrace it, including but not limited to President Trump.) The election-law wars, by contrast, aren’t about belief. They are about power: who has it, who gets to keep it. And as underscored by this week’s Supreme Court decision invalidating two North Carolina congressional districts as unconstitutional racial gerrymanders, the justices are as fully engaged in combat as anyone else. There was something delicious about the warning in the dissenting opinion by Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. about the danger that “the federal courts will be transformed into weapons of political warfare” if they remain open to deciding such cases. He said that by being too casually receptive to complaints like those brought by African-American voters in this case, courts “will invite the losers in the redistricting process to seek to obtain in court what they could not achieve in the political arena.” Please. When did the Supreme Court acquire such diffidence about offering a forum for electoral struggle? Am I the only one to recall the late Justice Antonin Scalia’s explanation for why the Supreme Court had to intervene to stop the recount of Florida’s votes in the 2000 presidential election? Permitting the recount to go forward, Justice Scalia wrote then, would cause “irreparable harm” to George W. Bush by “casting a cloud upon what he claims to be the legitimacy of his election.” Note that Justice Alito’s dissenting opinion this week in Cooper v. Harris was joined by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who as a private lawyer was a member of the Bush legal team in Palm Beach County, and by Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, a prime mover in the court’s eventual decision in what became Bush v. Gore. Ironies abound in the North Carolina decision. Not so many years ago, it was Republicans, in states that had not sent an African-American to Congress since Reconstruction, who were complaining that the Voting Rights Act was being misused by a heavy-handed federal government to create majority-black districts where state legislatures had not seen fit to create any. Now that Republicans have control of Southern state legislatures, they seek cover from the Voting Rights Act, claiming that it gives them no choice but to pack ever-greater black majorities into those very districts — which just happens to make the surrounding districts ever more white and safely Republican. It’s not race, it’s politics, the states say. Justice Elena Kagan’s majority opinion — her most important since joining the Supreme Court seven years ago — pulled the fig leaf off that position. (Justice Clarence Thomas provided Justice Kagan with a necessary fifth vote.) Justice Kagan acknowledged that race and partisan identification are highly correlated and that it isn’t always easy to disentangle the two. But in affirming the lower court’s conclusion that race, not partisanship, was the North Carolina Legislature’s predominant consideration when it added tens of thousands of black voters into districts that had been sending African-Americans to Congress by comfortable margins for years, the majority focused not on the state’s claims but on the evidence presented at trial. In one of the districts, District 1, the state effectively conceded the predominance of race, and the Supreme Court voted 8 to 0 to affirm the lower court’s finding of unconstitutionality. (Justice Neil Gorsuch, who was not on the court when the case was argued in December, didn’t have a vote.) The fight was over District 12, represented in Congress for 20 years by a Democrat, Representative Mel Watt, an African-American who attracted votes from many whites and who won re-election repeatedly by wide margins although the district was only about 44 percent black. In the redistricting that followed the 2010 census, the legislature nonetheless added 35,000 African-Americans of voting age to the district, while removing 50,000 whites, turning District 12 into a majority-black district. It was a classic case of what in election law is known as “packing.” Justice Kagan was polite — and just a bit sly — in suggesting what a motive might be for such an action. Legislators may simply misunderstand the Voting Rights Act, she said, or they may be seeking “to advance their partisan interests.” Then she added: “Or, finally — though we hope less commonly — they may simply seek to suppress the electoral power of minority voters.” That’s essentially what a federal appeals court found last summer when it struck down North Carolina’s stringent voter ID requirement, described by that court as an effort to “target African-Americans with almost surgical precision” by requiring forms of identification that they disproportionately lacked. Earlier this month, the Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of that ruling. Seemingly, because no one noted a dissent, all nine justices agreed with that outcome. But Chief Justice Roberts couldn’t leave it at that and risk the chance that the public, or lower court judges, might conclude that the Supreme Court actually agreed with the appeals court. Writing just for himself, he described the procedural complexities of the case and noted that “it is important to recall our frequent admonition that the denial of a writ of certiorari imports no expression of opinion upon the merits of the case.” Translation: Give us an uncomplicated voter ID case next time, and we might have something quite different to say about it. Sometimes, as in that example, Supreme Court justices can say a lot while seeming to say very little. It hasn’t taken long for Justice Gorsuch to figure that out. At issue on Monday of this week was a case challenging the constitutionality of restrictions on the use by state and local political parties of soft money, contributions outside federal limits from corporations and individuals. The Republican National Committee has long fought against this provision of the McCain-Feingold campaign finance law passed by Congress in 2002. The Supreme Court has twice rejected such challenges. The case this time was brought by the Republican Party of Louisiana. In November, a special three-judge Federal District Court in Washington rejected the challenge, and the Trump administration urged the justices either to dismiss the appeal or affirm the District Court’s ruling. “This case is governed by precedent that this Court has declined to overrule,” Jeffrey B. Wall, the acting United States solicitor general, told the Supreme Court. Unsurprisingly, the court took that advice and summarily affirmed the District Court. But there was a surprise. Two justices noted that they would have accepted the Louisiana Republicans’ appeal and set the case for argument. One was Justice Thomas. The other was Justice Gorsuch. Noting a dissent from a summary affirmance of this sort is not common. It is, in fact, gratuitous, because it provides no explanation and offers no legal path forward. It’s simply like raising a hand: “I’m here. Come talk to me sometime.” It’s a signal that the election wars, far from over, are ready to be reignited, with a new player in town eager to light the match.