In promising to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, many Republicans cited headlines from last year such as “Obamacare Premiums to Soar 22 Percent” and “As Obamacare Choices Dwindle, Feds Face Consumer, Political Backlash.” Yet based on a new analysis by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, headlines would be even worse under the health care bill to repeal Obamacare, which was passed by the House this month. If the Senate makes this flawed bill law, Republicans will have the chance to watch, all the way up to the midterm elections, as Americans pay higher premiums and lose coverage. By the time the bill’s full changes went into effect in 2020, many of those who voted for it could be long gone. Here are the types of headlines Republicans can expect. “Trumpcare Premiums to Soar by 26 Percent.” The Trump administration will release average premium increases in late October, before the start of open enrollment on Nov. 1. The C.B.O. estimated that the new health care bill would add an average of about 20 percent to individual market premiums next year, on top of the projected 6.5 percent annual increase under the current law. “60-Year-Olds to Pay Over 50 Percent More Under Trumpcare.” The new bill would let insurers charge older Americans five times more than they charge young adults (up from the three times more allowed under Obamacare) and decrease their tax credits starting in 2018. This means that certain older enrollees’ premiums could increase by at least 50 percent if implemented on time. And their insurance will get even more expensive after the credits shrink further starting in 2020. “Insurers Fleeing Trumpcare.” Over the last three and a half years, people in all areas of the country had marketplace insurance plans to choose from. But in part because of questions about the future of the marketplaces, some insurance companies are reportedly planning to cut their offerings in 2018. The C.B.O. confirms that insurers may withdraw because of “substantial uncertainty,” and markets with one-sixth of the nation’s residents could become unstable starting in 2020 with the passage of the Republican health care bill. Official exits will be announced starting in August, and cancellation notices sent around Oct. 1. “Biggest Rise in Uninsured in History.” Every September, the Census Bureau releases official data on the previous year’s health coverage. The C.B.O. projects that 14 million people will lose coverage in 2018 as a result of cuts to Medicaid, subsidies and rising premiums. This would be the single largest one-year decline in coverage in recorded history. “Untreated Opioid Addiction Surges.” Hundreds of thousands of people who are addicted to opioids got addiction and mental health treatment through Obamacare, preventing many overdose deaths. Trumpcare would end the nationwide requirement that plans cover these services, while other people would lose insurance entirely through the Medicaid cuts starting next year. “Trumpcare Is a Windfall for Millionaires.” Warren Buffett recently said that the House bill “is a huge tax cut for guys like me.” Over half of the legislation’s tax cuts accrue to millionaires, according to the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center. These cuts would go into effect in 2017, saving the rich an estimated $17 billion. President Trump has repeatedly said that Obamacare should be blamed for any problems in the individual market this year and next. Yet many of the predicted premium increases are actually a reaction to the attempts to repeal Obamacare, an attempt on the part of insurance companies to protect themselves from the uncertainty induced by the congressional debate and President Trump’s executive actions. And poll after poll shows a majority of Americans dislike the Republican approach and will hold Republicans responsible for any future problems. So Republicans citing Obamacare headlines should take a moment to imagine the likely Trumpcare headlines and what they will mean for their job security.