Remember when Ronald Reagan body slammed a reporter to the cheers of the conservative grassroots? Neither do I. Yet in the aftermath of the assault on Ben Jacobs, a reporter for The Guardian, by Greg Gianforte, the Republican candidate for a special House election in Montana, too many conservatives are either doubting the event occurred, despite audio evidence and witness testimony by a Fox News crew, or praising Mr. Gianforte for giving the press what it deserves. Ben is a friend of mine, who stood up for me when I was grabbed and bruised by one of Donald Trump’s campaign managers, Corey Lewandowski, during the Republican primary. His assault was far more brutal than mine — and given the report from Fox News journalists in the room, he understated the violence. But like Ben, I faced skepticism and accusations. Despite the fact that there was audio evidence of my attack and a Washington Post reporter had witnessed the incident, many conservatives said I was lying. When video came out proving my account, those who labeled me a hoaxer changed their tune to suggest I deserved what I got. From the age of the Gipper to our era of the Groper, the state of our politics has declined drastically. It’s hard to imagine the late, great William F. Buckley cheering on a politician who assaulted a reporter. But Buckley’s nephew, Brent Bozell, did just that on Twitter in the aftermath of the Jacobs’s incident. “Jacobs is an obnoxious, dishonest first class jerk. I’m not surprised he got smacked,” Mr. Bozell, who runs the conservative Media Research Institute, tweeted. In the United States today, it seems all politics has become entirely situational, and Republicans have put party over civility. Had Ben been attacked by a Democrat, many on the right who are refusing to believe the assault occurred — or outright praising it — would be hailing him as a victim of liberal rage. Had Hillary Clinton’s campaign manager, rather than Mr. Trump’s, grabbed my arm, I would not have been abandoned by many of my friends and mentors at Fox News, or my employer, Breitbart News. But I was inconvenient to their political narrative. Will Republican politicians condemn Mr. Gianforte? If not, we’ll have many more people to blame for the delegitimization of the press than President Trump.