Would Montanans have voted for Greg Gianforte, the Republican candidate for the state’s lone House seat, if they knew he was the kind of person who body slams journalists? Too bad two-thirds of them will never get to make that call, thanks to early voting. Campaigns are a test of character. Voters in today’s special election and otherwise should not cast a ballot for a candidate until they see how that person passes this first test of fitness for office. That’s a test that gets increasingly challenging as Election Day approaches. If you doubt that, listen to the tape of Mr. Gianforte assaulting Ben Jacobs, a reporter for The Guardian, in response to a question about the Republican health care bill. Two of the state’s newspapers — both of whom endorsed Mr. Gianforte — retracted their endorsements in the last 24 hours. Early voters in Montana didn’t have the same luxury — the state doesn’t allow early voters to change their minds. While some states do allow such changes, few take advantage of the opportunity since the process is so cumbersome. Anyone who’s been involved with running for office, from City Council to Congress, knows that campaigns are extremely stressful. Packed schedules, insistent donors and relentless questions from reporters are all part of the deal. But running for office is not remotely as difficult as what comes after the election, when the candidate has to start running again — while executing the responsibilities of the office gained from the last vote. Consider the ways early voting gets candidates off the hook. Is the candidate from my preferred party? Done. Is the candidate attached to some issue I care about? Done. Was the candidate recommended by someone I already like? Done. Early voting creates a situation in which voters must fill in the blanks, spackling over important gaps with their own biases and assumptions. Everything from party affiliation to physical attractiveness and name recognition serves as a stand-in for an actual evaluation of the person. Now think about all the questions that go unanswered with early voting. How does this candidate handle stress? Can this person answer questions consistently and present a coherent narrative of his or her views over time? Have all the issues in the candidate’s background been aired fully in a process of vetting that can take a lot longer than it takes to fill out an early ballot? Advocates of early voting will counter that until America has a better system for capturing all votes — a national voting holiday, mandatory voting or any number of other schemes — then early voting is a good option for people who can’t make it to the ballot box in a single day. Fair enough. Perhaps the answer is to have a 48-hour-voting period in which all campaigning must cease. Perhaps a full weekend is the answer. But any of these is a better option than the mechanism of early voting.