HOUSTON — People with health insurance tend to think of safety-net hospitals the way airline travelers think of the bus: as a cheaper service they would use only if they had to. But without these essential hospitals — which specialize in the care of our country’s most medically and financially vulnerable, particularly the uninsured — our entire health care system would be in danger. Neither the Trump administration nor congressional Republicans seem to understand this. The president’s budget, released on Tuesday, calls for cutting $610 billion from Medicaid over the next 10 years. That’s on top of the health care plan passed by the House early this month, which would hack an estimated $839 billion from the program and result in an estimated 23 million Americans’ losing insurance. Neither proposal is likely to make it through the Senate as is. But even less draconian versions would both increase the ranks of the uninsured and cut the already meager funding to the nearly 300 hospitals that provide them care, making it twice as hard for those hospitals to stay in business. When debating health care, we tend to talk far more about health insurance than about the institutions giving the actual care. Whatever the government decides to spend, poor people will get sick. And when they get sick enough, they will receive treatment. This is because federal law requires all hospitals to provide emergency care to all patients, regardless of their ability to pay. For uninsured patients, lifesaving surgeries and treatments, along with a limited recovery period, are often covered through Emergency Medicaid funds. But patients who don’t fit neatly into our medical system for reasons of health or finances or their social situation — the “medical misfits” that any one of us can become under the wrong circumstances — need far more long-term support. This is often where safety-net hospitals step in. “By taking care of a vast number of uninsured patients, safety-net health systems provide an effective subsidy to for-profit and nonprofit hospitals,” letting them focus on their paying customers, says Dr. Dave Chokshi, a physician and an executive at New York City Health and Hospitals. As King Hillier, the vice president of public policy at Harris Health, a safety-net hospital system here in Houston, puts it, “If we go down, they go down.” Roxanna is one of my patients at Houston’s largest safety-net hospital, Ben Taub Hospital. (I’m using only her first name to protect her privacy.) Her experience, although harrowing, shows how this relationship works. Roxanna always made a point to look elegant. Even while working as a caregiver to an elderly woman, she carried herself like the Saks Fifth Avenue saleswoman she had been for many years. But then she became ill, and soon her fashionable dresses hung off her like bags. In June 2016, she felt a sharp twist near her stomach. She started vomiting, first twice a day, then all the time. This will pass, she told herself. An old friend visited her in late December, an internal medicine doctor, like me. Roxanna no longer had health insurance, as she worked for herself. Despite having lived in the country for 26 years since moving here from El Salvador, she had never gotten legal residence, so she could not buy a policy through Obamacare — even if she’d been able to afford it. But to the doctor’s eyes, she looked desperately ill. She drove Roxanna straight to the renowned Houston Methodist Hospital. A CT scan revealed a tumor that extended into the muscles of her back, coursed behind her liver and invaded the body’s largest vein, the inferior vena cava. From there it snaked upward into her heart, where it sat like a boa constrictor, squeezing the right atrium and blocking blood flow to the lungs. There was no metastatic spread, but Roxanna was in heart failure. She was 48 years old. Without an operation, she would die. Roxanna was lucky in one regard, however. Dr. Michael Reardon, a leading expert on cardiac tumors, happened to be on staff at Houston Methodist. Because her life was at stake, her surgery and recovery could be covered by Emergency Medicaid. Dr. Reardon explained the extreme risks of the surgery, how it would include a foot-long incision from the top of her sternum all the way down to her pubic bone, cardiac bypass while the surgeons removed the tumor and 30 minutes of cooling to a core body temperature of 68 degrees to avoid brain damage. Roxanna wanted to live. She signed the consent form and on Jan. 6, closed her eyes under the effect of anesthesia. Though the surgical team successfully removed the tumor, her kidneys failed, and for weeks she remained in a coma and couldn’t breathe without a ventilator. The worst complication, however, started as a blister on a toe. The skin started to appear purple and engorged, even mottled. Very quickly, all the flesh from her knees down and from her elbows to fingertips was blanketed in blisters. She had developed limb ischemia, a rare complication that had arisen from the perfect storm of her cancer, the surgery and a possible allergy to blood thinners, something that not even the best health insurance could have prevented. On Jan. 25, when she awoke from the coma, she found her limbs black and wilted, like charred bone, what in medicine we call dry gangrene. As far as the doctors could tell, the cancer had been removed, and Roxanna’s heart was functioning normally. They considered amputating her dead limbs, but her kidneys were still recovering, and so on March 10, they recommended that she return home and allow the gangrenous portions to auto-amputate, a process that could take months. Roxanna held up her once gracious arms. “Like a dead branch falling off a tree?” she asked. What could she do now? How could she move forward? The staff at Houston Methodist had performed a herculean feat to save her life, but after her condition switched from acute to non-urgent, they were stuck. The hospital had already gone beyond its Emergency Medicaid allotment. Who would dress her wounds? Who would give her prostheses so that she could work again? Who would take the baton from Houston Methodist and make sure this “misfit” patient could take care of herself again, the way she always had? “Patients like Roxanna find themselves ping-ponged around with people trying not to care for them,” Dr. Reardon says. It’s why he suggested that she go to Ben Taub Hospital for her follow-up care. Ben Taub specializes in patients with little means to pay. But it isn’t just a hospital. It’s part of the Harris Health System, a network that offers an array of services to its indigent patients, including primary and specialty care, even chemotherapy, all at very low cost. Many hospitals can learn from this model. For instance, most Houstonians recognize Ben Taub as the city’s premier trauma center. It’s not uncommon to hear that if you’re shot or hit by a truck — remember, this is Texas — you should go to Ben Taub. Years ago, one of my friends was riding her bike when suddenly she found an S.U.V. parked on her legs. (The driver later admitted that he’d panicked and instinctually threw the car into park.) This friend was insured and could have visited any of the nearby emergency rooms, but she chose Ben Taub because of its designation as a Level One trauma center. Private hospitals don’t often obtain that prestigious designation because it requires a trauma surgeon to be on the premises 24/7 and surgical specialists readily available, which is expensive. Safety nets have traditionally housed Level One trauma centers because of their connection to medical schools, and government funding has helped keep them open. The orthopedic surgeon at Ben Taub who examined my friend and reassured her that, incredibly, no bones in her legs had been broken, was the same one to examine Roxanna years later. As Vivian Ho, a health care economist at the Baker Institute of Rice University, puts it, “Trauma isn’t just about poor people.” She believes safety nets are essential to society and well worth the investment. After all, everyone is one freak accident or lost job away from ending up as a misfit. We are also all vulnerable to epidemics and outbreaks, regardless of our insurance status, and when an illness like Zika or Ebola hits, safety-net hospitals are our first defense. Their coordination with public health authorities determines how successfully we control the spread of the disease. Consider the story of another patient, whom I spoke to last month. He visited Ben Taub’s emergency room on Halloween, after experiencing bursts of fever as high as 104 degrees. He’d tried two community clinics, which had diagnosed pneumonia and prescribed him ibuprofen and a Z-Pak, but nothing seemed to help. By day he studied audio engineering at a community college — one of the reasons he couldn’t afford health insurance — and at night he worked as a D.J. Now the 24-year-old couldn’t get through his sets without hacking up green phlegm. The doctors at Ben Taub realized that what he really had was tuberculosis, started treatment and plugged him into a Directly Observed Therapy program, in which public health officials visited him at his home to make sure he took his medications. When he still didn’t improve, it became clear he had drug-resistant TB, a public health threat of enormous proportions. He was quickly transferred to the Texas Center for Infectious Disease in San Antonio, which specializes in tuberculosis. “Everything is good now,” he told me over the phone in mid-April. The fevers had diminished, and he was no longer using a mask. One of his medications made his ears ring, but he still hopes to work as a D.J. again once he poses no further threat to his fans. This summer, as the budget process moves forward and the Senate debates the Republicans’ bill, the American Health Care Act, we must make sure safety-net hospitals retain funding to do this work. The problem, Dr. Brian Reed, the director of disease control and clinical prevention at Harris County Public Health, says, is that “these systems work so well, you don’t know about it.” If these budget cuts go forward, we will lose not only the last best hope for patients and bulwark against epidemics but also a successful cost-saving model that fuses our two prevailing health care philosophies: Safety nets are themselves misfits in how they blend conservative and liberal ideals. Harris Health receives nearly half of its funding from local property taxes. This falls in line with the conservative ideal of local control over local problems. At the same time, its mission is to serve patients whether they can pay or not, a liberal philosophy. Dr. Chokshi, at New York City Health and Hospitals, believes this is one of the reasons safety nets have a natural advantage in how they coordinate care, cut costs and make the overall health care environment more efficient. Ever since Roxanna left Houston Methodist, she’d been caring for her own wounds, wrapping them in gauze with the same hands that she waited to fall off. She came to Ben Taub’s emergency room one day last month because she noticed some pus and was concerned that the dry gangrene had converted into wet gangrene, an infection that can spread into the blood. As her hospitalist, my job was to coordinate her care. I consulted the orthopedic surgeon, who wanted to talk with her about an amputation now that her kidneys had recovered, as well as the physical therapist, who would make sure she was in line for the prosthetics clinic, before taking my place at her bedside. I inspected her wounds and was relieved to see that there was no wet gangrene. I reassured her and began rewrapping the gauze, when I felt a tap on my hand. Roxanna had noticed me fumbling and decided to show me how to dress her wounds properly. “Hold pressure here,” she said. Before I left, she said she wanted to show me pictures of those first days after the surgery, when her arms and legs were just starting to turn purple. One of her friends slid the stylus of her smartphone into the crook of her fingers, and she scrolled past the recent images of sickness and suffering as if they belonged to someone else. Finally she stopped. “This was me,” she said.