This year’s College Access Index — a measure of economic diversity at top colleges — has almost precisely the same methodology as last year’s. This year’s version is the third annual. The first was published early in the 2014-15 academic year, and the second early in the 2015-16 year. We examined colleges with a five-year graduation rate of at least 75 percent. Roughly 170 colleges nationwide met this standard. For these colleges, we collected three main kinds of data to produce the ranking. The first is the share of entering freshman who receive Pell Grants, the large federal financial-aid program. It typically helps students coming from the bottom 50 percent of the income distribution (and most Pell recipients are in the bottom 40 percent). We then multiplied the share of Pell students by the graduation rate for Pell recipients. The resulting number captures the share of a college’s entering class that is low-income and can be expected to graduate. The number led to one half of a college’s index number. The other half came from the average price — tuition, fees, room and board, net of financial aid — that the college charged students from families with annual income between $30,000 and $75,000. Together, the index measures how many lower-income students graduate from a college and how much they must pay to attend it. These statistics remain the only apples-to-apples statistics that most colleges have been willing to release (because the federal government mandates it). If colleges released more detailed statistics — such as an annual breakdown of their student body into comparable income buckets, rather than based only on the Pell cutoff — we would use them in our analysis. (More detailed statistics do exist, but they are at least five years old.) One other point: Officials at some public colleges with declining Pell shares argued that the main reason was the improvement in the economy over the past few years, which they say had made fewer students eligible. But after talking with economists and looking at the data, I’m skeptical of that explanation. For one thing, incomes haven’t risen that much in the past few years. For another, the Pell shares at private colleges have held steady on average. The economic improvement may well have played a small role in the declining Pell shares at some public colleges, but other factors, such as declining state support, have played a bigger role, as my column explains. Below, we offer more details on the calculations. Share of first-year students receiving Pell Grants. Students’ eligibility for Pell Grants depends on their family’s income, family size, the number of other children in college and other financial factors. Most students from households earning less than $50,000 receive a Pell grant. A substantial number from households earning between $70,000 and $100,000 also do. The Department of Education publishes data for each college on the share of first-year, full-time students receiving Pell Grants, with the most recent year available typically being 2014-15. We requested 2015-16 data from each college in the index, and most provided it. For those that did, the 2014-15 share accounted for 40 percent of their raw Pell score; 2013-14 accounted for 30 percent; 2012-13 accounted for 20 percent; and 2011-12 accounted for 10 percent. For those colleges that did not provide the 2014-15 number, we used the previous three years, with the same 3-2-1 weighting. The goal is to make the most recent year count most heavily but to avoid allowing any single data point to dominate. Graduation rate. The Higher Education Act (as amended in 2008) requires that colleges disclose the graduation rate for students with Pell Grants. But it does not require the Education Department to collect or publish this data. We asked each college in our index to provide us with graduation rates for the first-time full-time cohort that entered in the fall of 2009 — the six-year graduation rate for both Pell students and all students. Most but not all colleges provided the data. The Pell and overall graduation were strikingly similar on the whole, which is good news. Lower-income students who enroll at most top colleges graduate at almost the same rate as upper-income students. For colleges that provided the Pell graduation rate, we multiplied the six-year rate times its Pell share to arrive at an adjusted Pell score. For example, a college with 15 percent of freshmen receiving Pell grants and a Pell graduation rate of 80 percent would receive a Pell score of 12 percent — signifying that 12 percent of first-year students were both Pell recipients and likely to graduate. For colleges that did not provide a Pell graduation rate, we used overall graduation rate, deflated to adjust for the difference between overall and Pell graduation rates. We used the 25th percentile of the Pell/overall ratio, in an effort to ensure that colleges would not benefit by declining to provide their Pell graduation rate. Net price. The Education Department publishes net price data, by income group, for students who receive Title IV federal aid (as most financial-aid students do). As with the Pell data, it has limitations. A more complete data set would provide net-price data for all students, not just those receiving Title IV aid, and would give more detailed statistics than only the average for each income group. Yet the net price nonetheless captures the differences between colleges that offer nearly full scholarships to lower-income students and those that charge such students tens of thousands of dollars a year. We used the same weighting for the past four years of data as we did for Pell Grants, with the most recent year counting most. We then took an average of the net price for students from two groups: families with annual income between $30,000 and $48,000, and those with income between $48,001 and $75,000. (Federal rules set the cutoffs for these groups.) For readers interested in looking up data on net price, Pell Grants, overall graduation rates and many other subjects, the Education Department’s College Navigator website is a useful resource. For those interested in downloading data for many colleges, the IPEDS website is better. College Access Index. Once we calculated an adjusted Pell share and a net price for each college, we then calculated an average of each number for all colleges. Each college’s adjusted Pell share was then compared with the average Pell share, and each net price was compared with the average net price. These two comparisons were combined to create the index. An index value of 1 is average. A value higher than 1 suggests a greater commitment to economic diversity. I welcome feedback, on Facebook, Twitter or by email, at leonhardt@nytimes.com.