For 30 years, Starbucks has marketed itself not just as a coffee shop but as the “third place” between work and home. Baristas don’t just prepare lattes, they maintain communities. This spring, the community became, well, not so important. Starbucks announced plans to open stores that only accept mobile orders. Customers will beeline over to the pickup window, identify their beverage and walk right out. No need for banter — just grab your coffee and go. Many customers will celebrate. Who wants to wait in line? But technology’s unending crusade to eviscerate wasted time comes at a hidden cost. We derive value from those annoying moments when we’re compelled to dawdle. We engage in open-ended conversations with casual acquaintances on unfamiliar topics that frequently open our minds to new ideas. Imagine if someone challenged you to sort your acquaintances into categories. You’d place your most intimate ties — your spouse, children, parents, siblings, best friends — in one bucket, and your least intimate contacts — people with whom you might share nothing but a single common interest — in another. The people with whom you maintain merely a familiar relationship would fall into a distinct class. Those middling ties might comprise your neighbors, friends from your book club, buddies from your basketball league or members of your church choir. Over the last several decades, technology has empowered us to invest much more time and attention in our most and least intimate relationships. Parents can text their children throughout the day, and FaceTime with them while they travel. To that end, while only 13 percent of baby boomers kept in more than daily touch with their parents during young adulthood, nearly a third of Americans in their early 20s now report communicating with their mother or father at least once a day. On the flip side, we spend much more time online, flirting with strangers, trolling politicians and tweaking fantasy rosters in leagues managed by people we’ve never met in person or talked to by phone. Because our most intimate and our more ephemeral relationships now claim additional bandwidth, neighborly ties have suffered. We’ve abandoned the familiar relationships formed between members of a bowling league or an Elks Lodge. When the General Social Survey asked Americans to report whether they had shared a social evening with a family member, a distant friend or a neighbor, respondents reported far fewer interactions only with the people nearby. We’re more connected than ever — but we’re simultaneously estranged from the people who live next door. This shift has had powerful repercussions. Intimate connections rarely expose us to new ideas because we already know what, for example, our spouses, mothers and sisters think. Even if your father plans to vote for a presidential nominee you detest, his reasoning is unlikely to open your eyes to a new perspective on contemporary politics. Similarly, more ephemeral ties rarely prompt conversations that delve beyond a shared common interest. Online gamers storming a virtual fortress in World of Warcraft have rare occasion to discuss other subjects, if only because they frequently live continents apart. By contrast, middling relationships are the best suited to pierce our much-bemoaned filter bubbles. A left-wing academic might talk with a conservative banker while in line at Blockbuster — if that’s how we still rented movies. An activist could explain the benefits of paid leave to a skeptical businesswoman on the sidelines of the P.T.A. meeting — if that were how we spent our Tuesday nights. Experiments that compel ordinary people to discuss a fraught topic face-to-face have illustrated that those conversations quite frequently lead participants to think differently. But without middling relationships, those sorts of thoughtful, substantive interactions have become all too rare. The challenge is to find ways to reanimate neighborly ties. Technology can play a role. For instance, social media platforms like Meetup invite people who share a common interest to meet face to face, and Nextdoor creates social networks from the diversity of people who live in proximity. But we need to do more, and the lazy days of summer offer the perfect opportunity. So, over the next few months, invite a few neighbors over for a barbecue. Instead of enjoying that glass of lemonade in your apartment, hang out on your stoop and chat with a passer-by. If you plan to beat the heat by spending time at the local library, try to strike up a (low-volume) conversation with someone perusing the same shelf of books. Imagine, when you’re standing next to someone, that they hold the key to understanding something you know nothing about. Ask yourself: How can I tap a bit of that wisdom? For generations, neighborly relationships have helped Americans make an asset of the nation’s diversity. Friendly conversations worked, however imperfectly, to help us glean some perspective beyond the limitations of our own experience. Today, however, technology too frequently nudges us into intellectual niches. Intimate and arms-length relationships may be comfortable and easy to maintain, but we hurt ourselves by making strangers of the people who live nearby. Invest some additional time getting to know your neighbors. You never know what you might teach them — or what they might teach you.