After I finished college, I worked on a ballot issue campaign in Montana, where I grew up. The other side had enormous popular support, and we had eight weeks. My dad told me not to take the job because we were going to lose and it was going to be depressing. I took it anyway. We made our case in the press and in ads, and people listened, and we won. And Montana was better for it. That election was one of the most thrilling nights of my life. Yesterday, Montana voted to elect the Republican candidate, Greg Gianforte, to the House seat vacated by Ryan Zinke, now the United States Secretary of the Interior. Mr. Gianforte has financed a dinosaur museum that teaches creationism. His argument against Social Security is that Noah lived for 600 years and didn’t retire. The Congressional Leadership Fund, a Republican super PAC, has poured money into his campaign. The defeated Democratic candidate, Rob Quist, is a folk singer who believes in single-payer health care. He ran a grassroots campaign, visiting almost all of Montana’s 56 counties, some of them extremely remote, and he accepted no money from lobbyists or corporate PACs. Republicans had earlier defeated a proposal to mail ballots to all Montana voters, which would have saved the state money and made it easier for people living far from polling places to vote, including those living on the seven American-Indian reservations. It was blocked because Republicans knew that more people voting would be bad for their candidate, which is not the way democracy is supposed to work. On Wednesday, the day before the election, I was on the phone with my father, who was driving from Helena to Missoula. We were talking about the impact of the Citizens United decision. I was idly refreshing Twitter on my computer when I saw Ben Jacobs’s tweet about being body-slammed by Mr. Gianforte at a campaign event. I read it aloud. My dad was shocked. This part you’ve probably heard: Mr. Jacobs, a reporter for The Guardian, was taken by ambulance to the hospital. Mr. Gianforte’s spokesman released a statement painting the candidate as the victim of a “liberal journalist,” contradicting an audio recording that had already been released and reports by the Fox News crew who witnessed the scene. The Gallatin County sheriff (a donor to Mr. Gianforte’s campaign) charged Mr. Gianforte with misdemeanor assault on Wednesday evening. My father had dinner that night with a friend who lives in Billings, who thought the alleged attack on a reporter would energize Mr. Gianforte’s supporters and guarantee him the election. But my father was newly hopeful about Mr. Quist’s chances. I was hopeful, too. The Montanans I know look out for each other, and dislike bullies, frauds and Californians. I thought they would never elect a creationist tech millionaire from San Diego (by way of New Jersey) who had done something so seemingly unhinged. But I was wrong. So now I’m in mourning for the state I thought I knew. I gave money to Rob Quist’s campaign, as a lot of people did. I feel much closer to political races in Montana than in California, where I live. My family is in Montana, and my heart is there. When I was five, my father was the majority leader in the Montana House, and I had an engraved badge that said, “Maile Meloy, Assistant Majority Leader.” I knew that our legislature was passing progressive environmental laws and I was proud of them — proud of us. The balance in the House isn’t the only reason this special election was so important, or indicative of the future. It’s important because it shows that a strategy of regarding corporations as people, deliberately disenfranchising voters and battering the First Amendment is working, but it’s working to the detriment of us all. As many longtime members of Congress have pointed out, answering reporters’ questions (without violence) is part of the job. I’m trying to be encouraged that the race was as close as it was, and to be hopeful about the volunteers knocking on doors all day. I want to feel as energized about the political process as I did as a kid. I’d like to think that our free press will continue to reveal pervasive ugliness and violence for what it is, and that eventually voting will be easier for people, regardless of where they live. And that Montanans, and all of us, will be better for it.