LONDON — The Fastnet yacht race starts from Cowes, on the Isle of Wight, off the south coast of England. Competitors head west along the English Channel, go around Land’s End, and across the Celtic Sea to the desolate Fastnet Rock off the southern extremity of Ireland. The race returns to make its finish in Plymouth, Devon, in southwest England. The voyage takes most boats about five days and is one of the classics of offshore racing, notorious for rough water and sudden gales. In a straight line, the course is 608 nautical miles. But sailing boats never go in a straight line. When the starting gun fired for the last edition, in 2015, the boat I was on wasn’t even going forward. In a windless calm, we drifted over the line sideways, propelled by nothing more than the tide. I was still pleased to be there. I hadn’t expected it. In fact, I hadn’t sailed at all for a decade. But two weeks before the race, as I sat stationary in London traffic one evening, my phone lit up with a text message: “Want to do Fastnet?” It was from an unknown number. I replied immediately, “Yes.” After a moment’s thought, I followed up with, “Actually, who are you?” And then, a little later, “I’ll still come, I don’t care who you are.” I was aching to do the Fastnet, and had been for years. When I was growing up, in a small town in Northern Ireland, sailing was my whole world. I was the sort of monomaniac only a child can be. I spent my summers racing a plywood dinghy on Belfast Lough, the smelly estuary where the city still dumped its effluent. I spent my winters sanding and varnishing my boat till it shone with a golden light, longing for the foul-smelling summers to return. I memorized the contents of sailing magazines and books. There was no 10-year-old better able, or more willing, to lecture on meteorology, fluid dynamics and, in particular, the classic ocean races. The Fastnet always felt like it was already part of me. Even 30 years on, I badly wanted to race around that rock. The mystery invitation had come from a woman named Tessa Walsh. She had been part of the last yacht crew I’d sailed with, but I had hardly seen her since the owner of that boat sold it, back in 2007, and the crew had disbanded. Essentially, I’d been laid off from my hobby. Ms. Walsh had found a new owner, one who was looking for the last of eight crew members for a 38-foot boat, and I was the first of her contacts to reply. (Incidentally, sailors do often talk of boat owners as if they own the crew, too: “Our owner said we can’t have beer.” “Really? Our owner lets us do almost anything.”) Our new owner was called Flic Gabbay. She was also the skipper and, crucially, the navigator. This meant that during the race, she would sleep for no more than about an hour at a stretch. Her all-consuming challenge was to find the fastest route: decisions on whether we should take a northerly track and hug the shoreline, clear of the tide but also out of the best wind? Or head on a southerly path, out into the open Channel? The wind might be better, but the route was longer and the tide could be against us. Changing winds and currents mean that the playing field for sailing is constantly shifting. To liken it to riding a bicycle: If you get your route right, you can be going downhill all the way. Those things, on a smaller scale, were the concerns of my young summers. I’d heard that good sailors could see the wind. I spent hours sitting at the end of a jetty staring out to sea, trying desperately to see the air moving. Then someone else told me that I’d got it all wrong. You don’t see the wind, he said, you smell it. So I added hyperventilating to my routine. It didn’t help. Wind came; wind went. It was all a surprise to me. I may have been obsessed, but that didn’t transfer into actual ability. I seemed to grow worse with practice. I was an impossibly earnest child. If I could have grown a mustache and smoked a pipe, I would have. The harder I tried, and the tighter the furrows on my little forehead became, the more useless I became. I hatched grand strategies, based on distant cloud formations and the phases of the moon. But in competitions, I was left for dead by kids who just concentrated on steering straight. I still loved it. I was only ever properly happy with a boat moving below me. By the time, our yacht reached Land’s End on the second day, it was clear that my curse had sailed with us — and we weren’t winning anything. The wind that had filled our sails in an hour after the start had dissipated, and we sat becalmed under a hot sun. We were unlucky; boats just a mile or two ahead had caught a new weather system, and were already heading for the rock. Ms. Gabbay spent hours at her laptop, trying to download some wind from somewhere. New technology, same old frustration. Nothing helped. It took almost 24 agonizing, wallowing hours for the wind to return. When it did, we finally got out of the Channel and into the Celtic Sea. Conditions were different, because the sea here is part of the open Atlantic. Big swells roll in on a slow, relentless rhythm. I relished them. In a bunk below, in an hour or two off watch, I rocked contentedly with the rise and fall, and listened as they boiled past. Best of all was how much I’d forgotten. All the technical stuff about clouds and other intricacies, like how the foreshore’s albedo, a measure of reflected solar radiation, influences the wind direction in the afternoons, had gone. I settled into the role of helmsman. All those years in dinghies had not been completely wasted. Now that all the difficult navigational stuff had become Ms. Gabbay’s problem, I found that I could stand behind the wheel carving a fast passage through the rolling sea for hours on end, barely having to think. It was hypnotic. We rounded Fastnet Rock in daylight, on the afternoon of Day 4. I’d been worried we might pass at night, and see nothing. It jutted sharply up, bleak and gray, with a lighthouse on one side. That’s the second Fastnet lighthouse. Just a stump remains of the first one, on top of a massive concrete foundation that had the sinister air of a derelict fortification. It was an uninviting spot. Even after all these years of imagining this moment, I had no hankering to linger. On the trip back, the wind got up. Helming became harder: I had to time precisely a yank of the wheel at the top of a wave to make the five-ton boat plane like a surfboard. Then catch it at the bottom of the swell before losing control. If that happened, the boat would be sprawled on its side, sails flapping and everyone hanging on grimly. On one freakishly big wave, I got it just right. With spray flying, we roared down its face. Everyone on deck whooped with the exhilaration, and we hit a record speed. A couple of minutes later, I got it all wrong, and a wall of green water swept the deck, drenching us all. All this not just by day, but through the hours of darkness, too, when our little world ended at the edge of the deck. Crewing a small boat from orange dusk through to cold gray dawn, many miles from nearest land, is an experience extraordinary in its intensity. My Fastnet was like time out of time. Five days that felt like they came to me from another universe, five days so full that they drove my own life from my head. All I thought about was where we were, how we were doing in the race, how we could make the boat go faster. Interspersed, just occasionally, with how cold I was, how wet I was, and how tired. I didn’t want it to end. Why, I wondered, did the race finish in Plymouth? We’d have had another day of two of racing if we’d had to go all the way back up the Channel to Cowes. I’d achieved some sort of balance: In sailing at least, I was getting back from life everything I had ever put in. Even with all hope of an overall result gone, the last few hours were our best. At 2 a.m., with the lights of Plymouth in sight and the finish just an hour away, a school of dolphins appeared. They left phosphorescent trails in the black water as they swam in pairs alongside us, before diving under the keel. Two more would arrive to take their place, rolling and clicking. It was cartoonishly metaphorical, the eight of us surfing toward the finish line surrounded by jumping dolphins. Ten year old me, with mustache and pipe, would have ignored them, the better to evaluate the effects of Coriolis force on the sail trim. Happily, it turned out that I’d got a lot younger in the intervening years. We finished 186th from a fleet of just over 300. Sadly, I don’t imagine I’ll do it again any time soon. I think back to the Fastnet often, though; it has become a memory with a lot of weight hanging off it. Late at night, or on boring flights, I still love to feel those Atlantic rollers rocking me to sleep.