Even Republicans hotly critical of Donald Trump’s brand of populist nationalism were a little giddy with excitement when he won the presidency with healthy Republican majorities in both houses of Congress. Fond partisan fantasies of unified conservative government have given way to night sweats. Congressional Republican resistance to Mr. Trump’s new budget, which combines big increases in military spending with deep cuts to Medicaid and nutritional support for the poor, is one piece of evidence that the party’s legislative agenda is a mess. The small-government fanatics of the Freedom Caucus and its former member Mick Mulvaney, now director of the Office of Management and Budget, may think huge tax cuts financed by reducing health benefits for millions of voters — 23 million if the American Health Care Act is enacted, according to the latest Congressional Budget Office analysis — is a great idea. But it’s wildly unpopular with the public, including Republican voters, many of whom rely on Medicaid. Moderate Republican legislators thus find themselves forced to pick their poison. Is it better to suffer electoral blowback for cutting popular programs or for fecklessly impotent unified Republican government? Republicans need a fresh formula that can both win elections and govern. Mr. Trump’s nomination was a triumph of bread-and-circuses populism over reheated Reaganism. Yet the Tea Party wing of the Republican Party remains zealously committed to the idea that tax and spending cuts are the magic key to economic growth. Mr. Trump’s toxic nationalism certainly isn’t the answer to his party’s need for a new governing philosophy. There is a strand of thinking implicit in some Trumpian pronouncements that combines support for the welfare state with antiregulatory free-market zeal. Republicans would do well to draw it out. For decades, Republicans have traded on confusion in the meaning of “big government” and “free markets.” The regulatory state and the size of government are intertwined, but they contain logically and practically separable strands. The freedom of markets is determined mainly by the scope and intrusiveness of government regulation and not by the size of government — the portion of the economy’s output consumed by government spending, including programs like Social Security and Medicare. Historically, however, the level of government spending and the level of regulation have been packaged together and treated as a single variable. This has forced a choice between two options: the “liberal” package of big government and heavy regulation or the “conservative” package of small government and light regulation. But this is a false choice. Regulatory policy and fiscal policy are independent dimensions, and they can be rebundled in different packages. Mr. Trump’s gestures toward a big-government, low-regulation package — rooted more in instinct than intellect — proved popular with Republican voters. The free-market welfare state may seem like an oxymoron — especially from the perspective of today’s conservative ideologues — but it’s in fact the best idea for a fractious, cornered Republican Party. Let’s start with the regulatory state. Federal, state and municipal regulations add up to a serious drag on innovation, business formation, job creation and economic mobility. Republicans routinely rail against regulation but have undermined the credibility of their free-market ideals by using them as cover to help allies in the financial and energy sector. They rarely do anything significant to reduce the regulatory frictions that hold back growth. Instead, stuck in the grip of stale “supply side” dogma, Republicans consistently choose to spend down their political capital by cutting taxes and struggling in vain to reduce spending. Tax and spending cuts are supposed to increase growth by rewarding work and returning resources to the private sector. And this can work, especially when tax rates are counterproductively punitive. But economists have struggled to find empirical evidence of the negative effects of bigger government on growth. And indexes of economic freedom produced by free-market think tanks like the Fraser Institute and the Heritage Foundation show that big government and high levels of economic freedom often go hand in hand — despite the fact that such measures are specifically constructed to illustrate the evils of big governments. Republicans need to recognize finally that secure property rights, openness to global trade and a relatively low regulatory burden are much more important than fiscal policy for innovation, job creation and rising standards of living. To be sure, a deregulatory agenda in the hands of Mr. Trump and Steve Bannon, his chief strategist, is likely to be deployed as a mechanism for delivering favors for cronies. But a principled and effective regulation-reducing agenda will strengthen, not weaken, the rule of law. Republicans make a critical mistake, both factual and strategic, when they cast the welfare state as the enemy of prosperity and freedom. Far and away the biggest items in the budgets of advanced countries are “welfare state” social programs, like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, which account for nearly half the federal budget. This creates three huge problems for Republicans. First, voters (and not just left-leaning voters) love social insurance programs. Mr. Trump did well with Republicans by promising not to cut Social Security and Medicare. Now that it’s on the chopping block, Obamacare is more popular than ever. Government spending reliably rises as economies grow. When countries get richer, one of the first things their people do is vote for more generous government social services. This pattern, which economists have labeled Wagner’s Law, has held more or less steady for a century in dozens of developed democratic countries. Mr. Trump is president in part because he has — or had — better political sense than more ideological Republicans who are implicitly or explicitly committed to cuts to popular programs as the foundation of their economic agenda. Second, dynamic, competitive markets drive growth and opportunity through “disruptive innovation,” which necessarily destabilizes industries and displaces workers. The lack of a robust safety net capable of keeping people from becoming collateral damage of routine creative destruction, such as the automation and offshoring of jobs or the closing of local plants, generates anxiety and hostility to the sort of economic policy that produces growth and employment. So not only are sound safety nets popular, but they also increase the public’s tolerance for the dislocations of a dynamic free-market economy. Third, the idea that reducing taxpayer-financed government spending is the key to giving people more freedom and revving up the economy encourages conservative hostility to government as such. Republicans for whom it’s definitional that greater liberty and prosperity come from less government tend to distrust it as a matter of principle. Democrats in turn come to distrust that Republicans who believe this can govern in good faith. This leads to an overall decline in trust for institutions and contributes to the polarization and dysfunction that lead voters to clamor for populist outsiders who will shake up the system. But populist politicians like Mr. Trump, who cater to discontent, never make the system work better, because they don’t know or care how it works. The Republican legislative agenda is stalled because party members have boxed themselves in with their own bad ideas about what freedom and rising prosperity require. A new pro-growth economic platform that sets aside small-government monomania and focuses instead on protecting citizens’ basic rights to commit “capitalist acts between consenting adults,” as the libertarian philosopher Robert Nozick put it, has both practical and political advantages. It helps a lot to correctly diagnose what’s hurting the economy. Removing the regulatory barriers that make it hard for people to get work, start businesses and find affordable housing would actually do what tax cuts are supposed to do — liberate stymied productivity and brighten the prospects of ordinary Americans. Fortunately, defending a more freewheeling economy implies no hostility to the welfare state. On the contrary, a generous and effective safety net can be embraced as a tool to promote and sustain a culture of freedom, innovation and risk taking. Politically, repairing and improving the slipshod infrastructure of the safety net would liberate Republicans from the bad faith of attacking the welfare state in one breath, halfheartedly promising not to cut entitlements in the next and then breaking that promise once in power. More important, grasping that government spending is compatible with high levels of freedom and economic vitality would give Republicans space actually to govern. The belief that it is necessary always and forever to reduce spending leads to the embarrassing spectacle of obstruction and paralysis unfolding on Capitol Hill. A Republican Party that aimed instead to free markets and improve the effectiveness and composition of spending could govern, govern well and win elections doing it.