Finally some details. On Tuesday, the Trump administration released a reasonably detailed budget for the year 2018. Since no one thinks that President Trump is a conventional Republican, this is the first peek at his general philosophy of government, if he has one. This year’s sore thumb was a proposed family leave benefit. Paid family leave, that is, just like other grown-up countries have. It was under President Bill Clinton that the United States first had a law requiring employers to hold people’s jobs for them if they needed time off to have a baby or care for an elderly parent. But that was unpaid leave. President Trump is proposing six weeks paid and another six weeks unpaid, following the birth or adoption of a child. That’s still less generous than what many other countries have, but it’s not bad. In fact, it’s pretty good. It has been on the Democrats’ wish list for decades, but the final push came from Ivanka Trump, who apparently made this her top priority as an assistant to her father. Mr. Trump has made it very clear that he doesn’t care to be pushed around. But maybe he makes an exception for daughters. In any event, here is a piece of classic liberal legislation that Donald Trump endorses. Or is there a catch? Yes, maybe. Several, in fact. Is this just something held in reserve to give away when budget negotiations get tough? Above all, there’s the issue of who’s going to pay for it. The Times described it as a $25 billion program and said: “The administration would work with states to find ways to pay for it. Aides to Ms. Trump said the goal was a program that did not add to the deficit.” This hardly gives you confidence, does it? When I started this exercise I was determined not to give Mr. Trump credit for anything he might propose unless it was clear how it would be paid for. In this case, though, it actually does seem clear who will pay for this new benefit if it really happens. Employers will pay. They will have to find someone to do the work of the person on leave. To them, it could feel like a tax, not a benefit, just as in the debate about Obamacare. There are two debates here. There is the highbrow debate about the metaphysical distinction between a tax and a penalty. And then there’s the practical decision about who this financial burden — whatever you label it — is going to fall on. It can be just a little too easy for a president and Congress to require someone to do something that costs money, rather than doing it, and paying for it, themselves. So maybe the president is playing us for fools. Maybe he has no real intention to allow this expensive new mandate to be placed on the crippled backs of the nation’s heroic martyrs, small-business people. Or maybe he has stumbled upon something he truly believes in. Any guesses? Weigh in at somethingnice@nytimes.com.