LONDON — The revelation that Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, attempted to create a secret back channel to the Russian government in December has led to a feeding frenzy in the media. Yet there is nothing wrong per se with governments’ having a secret channel to an enemy. Most successful diplomatic negotiations are built on a secret initial phase. Think of the Iran nuclear talks and the Cuba negotiations under the last United States administration, both of which were begun through secret channels. I have spent the decade since I left public service constructing such channels between other governments and armed groups with the aim of ending civil wars. This is based on my experience in Northern Ireland, where I was the British government’s chief negotiator. The British government had a secret back channel to the Irish Republican Army from 1972 onward, even though Britain was fighting the I.R.A. throughout the quarter-century that followed. This secret channel played a crucial role in bringing about a cease-fire in 1975, the end of the first hunger strike in 1980 and, crucially, the 1994 cease-fire and peace talks under Prime Minister John Major. (The brave Catholic businessman who was the channel’s key conduit, Brendan Duddy, died about three weeks ago.) Democratic governments use such secret channels because it is very hard to be seen talking to people who are murdering your citizens. Unless you talk to the men with guns and offer them a political way forward, however, they are unlikely to stop fighting. Governments go to great lengths to disguise what they are doing. Mr. Major stood up in the House of Commons and said he would never talk to the I.R.A., that it would turn his stomach to do so. At the same time, he was corresponding secretly with the I.R.A. leader Martin McGuinness — and thank goodness he was, or there would have been no peace. When the I.R.A. leaked the correspondence in 1993 after that interaction, the Northern Ireland secretary at the time, Patrick Mayhew, was terrified that he would have to resign for lying to Parliament. Instead, he won support from both government and opposition benches for what he had done. Even those who have suffered personally from terrorism can see the need for such secret contacts. Colin Parry, whose 12-year-old son, Tim, was blown up by an I.R.A. bomb in Warrington in 1993, said that if anyone had told him that his government was in touch with the I.R.A. as his son lay dying in his arms, he would have been horrified, but that if anyone had told him the same thing six months later, he would have been delighted — because he would have known his son had not died in vain, and that there would be peace. In Spain, the Socialist government set up a similar deniable channel to ETA, the Basque separatist movement, that led to the end of the conflict in 2011. The Spanish government ran the negotiations through an independent organization based in Switzerland and insisted its representative should be not a minister but a local party official, so that it could deny there were official talks if their existence ever leaked. President Juan Manuel Santos in Colombia used a secret channel to the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, known as the FARC, to start the talks that led to the peace agreement last year. The process was almost identical to ours with the I.R.A. The intermediary would travel into the jungle to meet the guerrillas in their camps to negotiate their exfiltration and the beginning of the secret talks in Havana. We have seen similar secret channels to Hamas, the Palestinian group that rules Gaza, and to the Taliban in Afghanistan. We will probably see them in future with the terrorist militias in Syria and Iraq, the Nusra Front and the Islamic State, however hard that seems to imagine at the moment. The problem with secret back channels, therefore, is not how bad the people at the other end are. The problems arise with the motivation for keeping the contacts secret and what you do with the channel. It is certainly odd that Mr. Kushner’s proposed channel to Russia was not from a government but from a transition team and that he went to such lengths to avoid government channels of communication. That could be explained by the desire to change policy from that of the Obama administration, but the choice of the closely monitored Russian ambassador as the secret go-between was clearly a mistake. This does not amount to a crime. If the motive for deception, though, is to hide criminal activity rather than conduct a negotiation, then secret channels go wrong. The reason that the Iran-contra affair became such a scandal during the Reagan administration was not because the national security adviser, Robert McFarlane, and Lt. Col. Oliver North set up a secret channel to the Iranians to secure the release of the American hostages held by Hezbollah. That was praiseworthy. Taking a Bible signed by President Reagan and a cake shaped in the form of a key to Tehran may have been comical, but it was not a crime. The problem was “the Enterprise,” using the scheme to secretly fund arms and training for the contras fighting the Sandinistas in Nicaragua, in contravention of the Boland Amendment. That was why Colonel North and his colleagues ended up in court, and, as Gallup reported, Reagan’s approval ratings dropped to 47 percent from 63 percent. A judgment can be made only when Mr. Kushner’s motive for attempting to set up his secret channel is known. The point of a secret back channel, above all, is to set it up so that it remains confidential until its work is done. If news of it leaks, that is a fatal error — as Colonel North learned. In that respect, Mr. Kushner has already failed.