PRINCETON, N.J. — Few American institutions have a history of exclusion quite like Princeton University’s. Its president in the late 19th century, Francis Landey Patton, called it “the finest country club in America.” F . Scott Fitzgerald made the line more literary and more famous: “the pleasantest country club in America.” Woodrow Wilson, another Princeton president, became a national figure during his effort to break open the college’s elite eating clubs. He failed. And the muckraking journalist Upton Sinclair described Princeton as “the most perfect school of snobbery in America” with “few Jews” and “no Negroes.” Into the 1950s, some entering classes included not a single African-American. This history (from Jerome Karabel’s book, “The Chosen”) makes the recent developments here all the more remarkable. It also makes them a lesson for how other American institutions can respond to a central challenge of our time: the hardening of class divisions and a widespread stagnation in living standards. “This is what gets me up in the morning,” says Christopher Eisgruber, who grew up in Indiana and Oregon, attended Princeton, became a Supreme Court scholar and is now the university’s president. “I recognize this place as having a transformative effect on my life. I hear that from so many of our graduates. And I get up in the morning thinking about how I can bring that experience to more people.” Eisgruber and his colleagues have made real and rapid progress. Princeton was until recently among the country’s least economically diverse colleges, overlooking hundreds of qualified low-income high-school students each year. When I used to call the university to ask about the topic, I could barely get anyone on the phone. No more. Only 6.5 percent of the class of 2007 received Pell grants, which typically go to students in the bottom half of income distribution. The share among the class of 2017, which graduates next week, is 14.9 percent. The share in both this year’s and next year’s freshman class is 21 percent. The changes aren’t just about one statistic, either. Princeton is also enrolling more middle-class students and low-income foreigners, who are ineligible for Pell grants. Members of the new Princeton proletariat refer to themselves as “FLI” — for “first-generation, low-income” — and they do not sugarcoat their experiences. They often arrive with spotty academic preparation. They have to fit in schoolwork, extracurriculars and a campus job, notes Monica Magalhães, a senior from Newark. They make compromises that don’t even occur to well-off students (of whom there are still many). This year, My Bui, a junior from St. Paul, Minn., was offered an appealing internship with the Washington public-school system, and some of her friends were confused when she didn’t immediately say yes. “Because I can’t afford to live in D.C.,” she would tell them. Even so, the vast majority of FLI students are succeeding, thanks to talent, grit and peer support. Their graduation rate is 93 percent, only a few points below average. Their overall satisfaction is similar, too, surveys show. It’s a safe bet that Princeton will keep producing a disproportionate number of Supreme Court justices, members of Congress, C.E.O.’s and other influencers — and that these students will be among them. Versions of Princeton’s story are also happening elsewhere. Yale, where I was a financial-aid student 25 years ago, has increased its Pell share, too; among last year’s freshmen, Yale’s share and Princeton’s each exceeded that of Harvard, which had been a leader. Franklin & Marshall, despite a far smaller endowment, remains a leader. So does Amherst. Washington University, in St. Louis, is making a much-needed push. But for every college like these, there is another that doesn’t seem to care much. Over all, economic diversity at top colleges isn’t budging (and is declining at public colleges, thanks to state budget cuts), according to the The Times’s latest College Access Index. Among the laggards: the University of Chicago, Notre Dame, Penn, Tufts, Oberlin, Bates, Bryn Mawr and Wake Forest. “We need to see more of the best-endowed institutions taking this seriously,” said Tony Marx, Amherst’s former president, who runs the New York Public Library. Princeton, obviously, won’t solve the nation’s problems. But Eisgruber has still done something important: create urgency in his own community about the American class divide — a divide that has led to anger, alienation and the most worrisome political situation in decades. Other institutions could use more of this urgency. If your school, religious organization, neighborhood association or corporation isn’t doing something to address the stagnation of living standards, it should ask itself why not. Nearly all of us could be doing more. Including Princeton. Eisgruber says that he hopes to push the Pell share somewhat higher — and to expand enrollment, to create opportunities for more students. A few centuries of exclusion don’t get reversed immediately.