Just a few days before his graduation, Richard Collins III — a black student and an Army lieutenant at Bowie State University, in Maryland — was visiting the nearby University of Maryland at College Park, when he was stabbed at a bus stop near campus by Sean Urbanski, a white student who was a senior there. Though investigators have not yet determined whether the killing was a hate crime, the perpetrator was a member of a now-deleted Facebook group called Alt-Reich: Nation, which published white supremacist content. On Campus reached out to students of color at both schools to reflect on the killing and its aftermath. The news hit us so hard. It was like a huge brick house landed on my chest. Richard Collins was killed because he was black. He was stabbed by a white student at the University of Maryland, who was a member of a Facebook group that spit out content that showed “extreme bias against women, Latinos, members of the Jewish faith, and especially African-Americans,” according to David Mitchell, the University of Maryland police chief. Obviously, an entire school cannot be judged by the actions and beliefs of one student. But this horrific death is part of a pattern of racial intimidation happening on many college campuses. The output of hate — usually in the form of white nationalist signs, or graffitied slurs — is not new but it seems to constantly take new forms. Bananas hung from nooses, scrawled with the name of an African-American sorority on American University’s campus. Fliers posted around the University of Maryland that say, “America is a white nation.” Even at my historically black college, Bowie State, there were swastikas drawn around the campus. There is no escaping this racist and hateful climate. Black students have to put up with it every day. Can we please talk about it? At Bowie State, no one really questions whether race was involved in this killing. Of course, administrators at the University of Maryland can’t say that. Racism is an ugly word. It could cost the university money; maybe Maryland alumni would jump down the administration’s throat. No prospective student wants to go to a school that is open about the fact that it has a problem with racism. But what happens in the dark always comes to light, and racism on campus is no different. Addressing it head on may create more political problems in the short term, but if schools cannot crack down on racist incidents, hateful behavior will only proliferate. Too often, truly cruel speech is excused because it falls under “free speech.” But is there any doubt that hateful speech — the kind that proliferates online, and shows up on our campuses — can easily becomes hateful action, or at least, that it makes room for such action? Is there anything more threatening to a student’s self-expression than being killed? It is impossible to know without a doubt about the intentions of Richard Collins’s killer — alcohol was clearly involved. But his death was needless. Since the tragedy, the entire Bowie State community has banded together. It is good to see the outpouring of love and support from alumni, professors and students. It also shows just how important the HBCU community is. The mentality is: We are all in this together. Now is no exception. Stress is common to all college students, but I think race-related stress — which extends, of course, beyond campuses — is incredibly overlooked. People of color experience heightened anxiety based on our experiences and what we see in the news. It’s not always fear of a racist act. It could be anxiety from impostor syndrome or about being perceived as conforming to a stereotype, for example. We are seen differently and it gives us higher levels of sensitivity to imagine, and prepare for, the ways we may be perceived. The news of Richard Collins’s death is horrible. I don’t want to diminish his life, but this is what we have come to expect. It is hard not to become numb to the news. In it we see reoccurring themes that reveal how black life is valued less. The University of Maryland is widely acclaimed and admired for its diverse student body and tolerance and inclusion initiatives. But racism is still a big problem here, and the administration often dismisses genuine concerns of students of color. There is plenty of mystery about the details of Richard Collins’s killing, but the bottom line is a white male college student came up to a black male college student and stabbed him, unprovoked. Collins was merely waiting for an Uber with two friends. This terrible tragedy came at the end of a school year at the University of Maryland riddled with racially fueled incidents that have deeply affected people of color on campus. Following November’s election, posters for the National Vanguard, a white nationalist organization, were pinned up on buildings throughout the campus. These posters urged white students to take back “their country.” More recently, a noose was found hanging in a fraternity house that is staffed with black workers and owned by the university. Many people are quick to say that each incident is isolated, that no one should look at these events as part of something larger embedded in campus culture. And it is hard to know who is perpetrating each act. The Anti-Defamation League says there has been a calculated outreach effort by hate groups to infiltrate, and recruit on, college campuses. Regardless, students of color want the UMD administration to respond more forcefully. A coalition of students, ProtectUMD, formed after last year’s presidential election to negotiate with the administration for better acknowledgment of the adversity students of color face. But we feel we have been ignored. After hateful messages were written in chalk around campus last month, students of color washed them away and replaced them with uplifting ones. Wallace Loh, UMD’s president, took to Twitter to encourage the “discourse.” This isn’t discourse — it is students of color trying to protect each other from fear and intimidation. The posters encouraging white students to take back a country that never belonged to them were taken down, but we never heard anything about consequences. After the noose incident, President Loh condemned the act and reaffirmed the university’s dedication to promoting diversity, saying that this was not representative of the community. But he has not done enough to meet with student leaders or call out horrible racism for what it is. Students of color at the University of Maryland are rarely consulted when initiatives to help them are drafted. Since the death of Richard Collins, students have been shaken. We are scared that we attend a school where something like this could happen. Students of color do not feel safe, and we have been saying this repeatedly. We ask that our problems be officially acknowledged — that the administration send a message that there are extreme repercussions for those who feel perfectly comfortable disrespecting and disregarding the lives of people of color. Soon after a noose was found hanging in a frat house, a group of students of color organized a safe area in the library. It was essentially just a place for those students and their allies to study without fear of judgment or intimidation — but other students complained that we were taking up a whole floor and that it was “inconsiderate.” Many white students were upset with us for “disrupting the community during finals week.” It is so incredibly frustrating to be called “inconsiderate” or “disruptive” when the truth is that students of color are in much greater danger than so many of our white peers. A black student from Bowie State University was murdered on our campus by a white student. It feels like it could’ve been me or any of my friends — and that is frightening. I hope and pray that this tragedy will open up people’s eyes to the fact that racism is very much alive and real, and when students of color bring it up, we should be taken seriously. Listen to us. The terrible news unfolded over the course of graduation weekend. As seniors, we have all spent the better part of this semester asking, answering, or avoiding the question: “So, what are you doing next?” Mr. Collins had an answer. After his graduation he was joining the Army as a second lieutenant. How is it that everything could be taken from him and his family, so completely and so quickly? Most students had already left for the summer when the news broke. There were no large crowds to rally on the mostly empty campus. The outrage was immense, but there is a huge, unanswerable question: How do we fix this? How do we honor his life? Soon after the attacker’s name was released, we heard about his affiliation with an alt-right Facebook group, and that Lieutenant Collins’s death was being investigated as a hate crime. I was shocked. I have been so proud of the strides this campus has taken to increase diversity and promote inclusive language and behavior. Posters cover dorm walls and notice boards challenging us students to think about the impact of our words. We have been encouraged to speak up for ourselves, to make UMD a safe space for everyone. But the attacker was a UMD student. Lieutenant Collins was a guest on our campus. And he was subject to a hatred and violence that I refused to believe we harbored. During graduation, seniors took pictures with the beloved Testudo mascot, chanted “Terps for Life”, and proudly wore stoles emblazoned with the UMD logo. But loyalty to our fellow students was suddenly in question. The shared confusion and shame that one of us, a fellow Terp, could be so unspeakably cruel, made us all question — at the precipice of entering the wide unknown of the “real world” — just how deep our efforts to celebrate diversity go.