One of the major goals of tax reform is to reduce the opportunities for savvy taxpayers to game the system. But if President Trump and House Republicans have their way, we will have a new contender for the tax code’s largest loophole: a new special cap on the tax rate for so-called pass-through business income. Proponents say that such a cap will benefit small businesses, but in reality, it will overwhelmingly benefit the wealthy. Tax experts on the left and right, including those who generally support business tax cuts, agree that it is a terrible idea. But with support for it in the White House and on Capitol Hill, it might well become law. Pass-throughs are businesses that do not pay taxes but instead report their taxable profits to their owners, who then pay tax on their share of the profits. (Limited-liability companies, or L.L.C.s, are a common example of a pass-through.) This sounds technical, but the implications are huge, providing a big tax advantage over “C corporations,” like Ford or CVS, which pay corporate income taxes and whose shareholders pay a second layer of tax when the corporation pays dividends or its shareholders realize a gain. Supporters claim that most pass-throughs are mom-and-pop operations, and it’s true that many are. But pass-throughs are also enormously popular among the wealthy, including people like the president himself, who owns some 500 pass-through businesses. President Trump has proposed cutting the top rate on most income, like wages, from 39.6 percent to 35 percent. But he wants to slash the top rate on pass-through business income — and only that — by a whopping 24.6 percentage points, from 39.6 percent to 15 percent. Republicans have proposed a similar plan, though with not quite as large a cut for high-bracket pass-throughs. (These figures ignore other proposals to eliminate Medicare-related taxes on high earners that are in the Republicans’ health care bill.) According to new estimates by the Tax Policy Center, an astonishing 77 percent of the cut would go to the top 1 percent of income earners, who would see an increase in after-tax income of about 5 percent, $76,000 on average. This group currently earns more than half of all pass-through income and is much more likely to fall in the higher brackets that actually benefit from the Trump and House Republican proposals. The bottom 80 percent of workers would see no benefit whatever. This new loophole would encourage people to characterize even more of their income as pass-through income. Under this plan, if a wealthy executive sets up an L.L.C. to receive his $10 million salary, he could potentially save $2 million in taxes. Indeed, the cost of capping the rate on pass-through income is breathtaking. The Tax Policy Center and Tax Foundation both estimate that Mr. Trump’s proposed cap would cost about $1.5 trillion over 10 years, about a quarter of the net cost of his campaign tax plan. After accounting for ensuing efforts to game the loophole, the Tax Policy Center and Goldman Sachs estimate it would cost $2 trillion or more. To make matters worse, the proposal could destabilize funding for Medicare and Social Security, effects that aren’t included in these estimates. As more people claim their labor income as business income, the Medicare and Social Security Trust Funds could collect less payroll tax revenue. Together with the pressure that the proposal’s cost would place on our long-term fiscal outlook, this could jeopardize benefits for future retirees. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has said he can prevent gaming of the special rate cap, but there’s no practical way to do so for the wealthy. The most prominent anti-avoidance proposal, by former Representative Dave Camp, a Michigan Republican, is simply a backdoor formula that replaces the headline preferential rate for pass-through income with a somewhat less preferential effective rate — essentially conceding that the only way to limit gaming is not to enact a preferential rate in the first place. Rather than falsely claiming that a cap on the pass-through rate would benefit small businesses, some advocates argue that it’s only fair to treat all businesses the same. If Congress succeeds in cutting the corporate tax rate to 15 percent as the president has proposed, shouldn’t the same rate apply to pass-throughs? But this argument also falls apart under the facts. Pass-throughs already enjoy a large tax bias, after accounting for investor-level taxes. That’s why we’ve seen dramatic growth in their numbers, to 60 percent of net business income today from less than one-fourth in 1980. What’s more, pass-throughs that prefer to pay tax as C corporations can change their tax treatment relatively easily at any time, whereas public C corporations generally have to go private to become pass-throughs. Achieving tax fairness is an admirable goal, and Congress should pursue it. But to get there, it should try to close loopholes, not open giant new ones.