This Week in Hate highlights hate crimes and harassment around the country since the election of President Trump. A black college student was fatally stabbed in College Park, Md., days before he would have graduated. Two men were killed and another wounded when they tried to stop a man’s hateful rant on a train in Portland, Ore. This week, a home in Los Angeles owned by the N.B.A. star LeBron James was vandalized with racial slurs. “We got a long way to go, for us as a society and for us as African-Americans, until we feel equal in America,” Mr. James said at a news conference on Wednesday. “Hate in America, especially for African-Americans, is living every day.” Though the frequency seems to have decreased since the beginning of the year, hate crimes like the attacks in Portland and the vandalism of Mr. James’s home continue. More comprehensive data is needed, but reports to the Southern Poverty Law Center and other groups over the past few months have revealed a few patterns. Reports of hate crimes surged in the days after the election.  The Southern Poverty Law Center counted almost 900 incidents of hate or bias in the ten days after the election, using a combination of news reports and witness testimony. The group counted 1,094 incidents in the first month after the election, and 1,863 between November 9 and March 31. Schools were a particularly common location for hate incidents — the S.P.L.C. counted 284 at primary and secondary schools, and 330 on college campuses. The group counted 178 incidents involving the posting of white supremacist flyers; the flyers were posted in two bursts, one the week after the election and one during the month of February, and the majority of flyers were posted at colleges. The frequency of hate incidents seems to have lessened — but that doesn’t mean they’ve stopped. While the number of reports to the S.P.L.C. has tapered off since January, a number of serious crimes have occurred since then, including the killings in Portland and College Park and the shooting of two Indian immigrants in Olathe, Kan., in February, said Heidi Beirich, who leads the Intelligence Project at the center. Incidents of harassment continue as well. Charles Cox was at a restaurant in Leavenworth, Kan., with his 3-year-old daughter in early spring when he heard another patron say that now that Donald Trump is president, “things are going to get cleaned up around here.” The man was looking right at Mr. Cox, who is of Korean and European heritage. “I think we all knew what he meant by it,” he said. Racist harassment has long been a fact of life for Mr. Cox, who reported his experience to the Documenting Hate project, a partnership that includes ProPublica, The New York Times opinion section and other organizations. “I’ve been called five to six different races,” he said — some people assume he is Latino and joke that he should be great at lawn maintenance. Some people are too quick to dismiss victims of racism or tell them to calm down, Mr. Cox said. “We’ve dealt with this our whole lives,” he explained. “I dare you to go through five minutes of somebody bashing you about something you have no control over.” Many Muslim Americans have reported abuse by federal agents. The Council on American-Islamic Relations received 1,597 reports of potential bias between January 1 and March 31 and was able to verify 851 of these. Of the verified reports, about half involved abuse by representatives of federal agencies; the most common perpetrators were customs or border patrol agents, accounting for 23 percent of incidents. Thirty-three percent were related to the travel ban the president signed on January 27. Calls to “go back to your country” are common. For Sharon Kim, it happened in early March. She was walking in Brooklyn with her 19-month-old son strapped to her chest when she heard someone say, “Go back to your country.” Ms. Kim, who was born in the United States and is Korean-American, turned around to see a white teenager who wouldn’t meet her eyes. The encounter gave her a “sick, sad feeling,” she said. “My child was literally strapped to my body and I couldn’t do anything to prevent something like that.” Ms. Kim is one of many who have been told some variant of “go back to your country” since the election, according to reports to the Documenting Hate project. As of February, more than 40 people had reported harassment involving some variation on the phrase to the website Univision, one of the Documenting Hate partners, which could not verify all reports. Those perceived to be immigrants were the most commonly targeted group in incidents of hate and harassment reported to the Southern Poverty Law Center, with 387 incidents categorized as anti-immigrant. Liberal states and cities aren’t immune. Until she was harassed in March, Ms. Kim had never experienced anything like that in Brooklyn, where she has lived for about seven years. But since the election, many people have reported harassment or abuse in left-leaning, diverse areas of the country. Nearly 150 of the more than 3,000 reports made to the Documenting Hate project since the election involve incidents in New York City, though not all have been verified. Harassment in a place that once felt safe can take an emotional toll. Growing up in Ohio, Ms. Kim said she had a feeling many people of color share, “a certain readiness” in case she became a target for racism. She never felt that way in Brooklyn, but that’s changed since the incident in March. “I have that feeling all the time now,” she said. Hate crimes are almost certainly underreported. The Department of Justice has estimated that nearly 260,000 hate crimes were committed every year between 2007 and 2011. But the F.B.I.’s annual total of hate crimes nationwide typically hovers around 5,000. The F.B.I. count relies on voluntary reports from local law enforcement agencies, many of which choose not to report their data. And hate crime laws vary from state to state; five states have no hate crime laws at all. As a result, thousands of hate crimes every year are probably missing from official statistics, making it harder for law enforcement to fight the problem and for the public to understand its true scope. Given the Trump administration’s reluctance to condemn acts of hate, reforms in hate crime reporting probably aren’t coming any time soon, said Ms. Beirich. “Until a change of political leadership, I don’t see this getting better.” In the absence of reliable data, what we have are a growing number of personal stories of hate and its effects. Ms. Kim says harassment like what she experienced can have a lasting impact. “It’s not as simple as just letting it roll off your back,” she said. “It’s not like if somebody calls you stupid or ugly. It’s a threat.” For Mr. Cox, the frequency of racist harassment doesn’t make it any less painful. “I don’t think anybody will ever be numb to it,” he said. If you have experienced, witnessed or read about a hate crime or incident of bias or harassment, you can use this form to send information about the incident to This Week in Hate and other partners in the Documenting Hate project. The form is not a report to law enforcement or any government agency. These resources may be helpful for people who have experienced harassment. If you witness harassment, here are some tips for responding. You can contact This Week in Hate at weekinhate@nytimes.com.