This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. If you’re angry about President Trump’s decision on the Paris climate accord, I’m right there with you. But anger won’t solve the problem. So I encourage you to ponder this question: What would a more politically persuasive message about climate change sound like? I don’t pretend to know the answer, but I do think it’s worth some humble reflection. So far, those of us agonizing over the planet’s future have failed to win over enough of our fellow citizens to accomplish what we desperately believe to be necessary. Climate change, clearly, is real. It’s already doing damage in our country and abroad. To take one chilling example, a crack in the Antarctic ice shelf has grown 17 miles in just the last week. Scientists and the leaders of virtually every country in the world take climate change seriously. There is only one major exception: the Republican Party in the United States. Republican leaders instead promote silly conspiracy theories, like the “cornucopia of dystopian, dishonest and discredited data” President Trump offered yesterday. When in office, the party acts on these falsities. Yet Republicans have paid virtually no political price for all of this. They control the White House, the House, the Senate, 33 governor’s offices and the legislatures in 32 states. No large segment of American voters is willing to punish the party for a stance that is likely to harm the human race — Republicans included! — for generations to come. If anything, as The Times’s Nate Cohn said on Twitter yesterday, climate denial wrapped as economic populism has helped swing traditionally Democratic voters toward the Republican Party. (His tweet seemed to upset some people, even though yelling at reality won’t change it.) Greg Sargent of The Washington Post wrote a strong piece yesterday arguing that not just Trump but the entire Republican Party “should own the consequences” of exiting the Paris accord. Fair enough. How? I’d like to ask readers to send me articles (Leonhardt@nytimes.com) they’ve read — or thoughts they have — about how to develop a more effective political message on climate change. Passion, righteousness and even anger can certainly be useful. Yet they aren’t enough after a day like yesterday. Everyone who cares about the planet also needs to aspire to effectiveness. In The Times, Bill McKibben called the exit from Paris “our nation’s dumbest act since launching the war in Iraq,” and David Brooks and Paul Krugman both address the decision in their columns.