There was certainly a lot of buildup. Before President Trump formally announced on Thursday that the United States would pull out of the Paris climate agreement, he teased the public about the timing of the decision, almost as though he were savoring it. First came the reports that members of Mr. Trump’s administration were deadlocked on the issue, followed by stories noting that the decision was being repeatedly delayed. On Wednesday, multiple news organizations including The New York Times reported that Trump was likely to exit the agreement. Then, finally, Mr. Trump chimed in on Twitter to heighten the suspense. “I will be announcing my decision on Paris Accord, Thursday at 3:00 P.M.,” he tweeted. “MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN!” Never mind that what was at stake was a breakthrough agreement, 20 years in the making, that had been painstakingly negotiated by virtually every nation in the world in an effort to save the planet from catastrophic climate change. This matter would be handled in the manner we have come to expect — with the sort of gauche fanfare normally reserved for reality TV. On Thursday afternoon, cameras were set up all over the White House Rose Garden, broadcasting images of a sea of aides, reporters and guests from Koch-affiliated groups while the big show was delayed for nearly thirty minutes. The surreal sound of elevator music drifted across the internet: A jazz band was performing. Channeling his inner game show host, Vice President Mike Pence welcomed the crowd to the White House and alluded to the president’s decision — but didn’t quite reveal it — by praising Mr. Trump’s efforts “to put American energy and American industry first.” By the time President Trump announced that the United States would exit the Paris agreement, he had kept the world on edge for over 24 hours — or several months, depending on how closely you were watching. Since Mr. Trump began his presidential run, many have pointed to reality television as a framework for understanding the former “Apprentice” star’s behavior: his instinct to stoke competition among his staff, for example, or his ability to produce an endless stream of controversies that imprison our attention. Conveniently, though, reality TV also provides a good framework for understanding what this administration has unearthed in us: an expectation of absurdity, or even a desire for it. A certain kind of ugliness can be compelling to watch from a safe distance, an unfortunate fact that reality TV producers — as well as the Roger Stones, Robert Mercers and Steve Bannons who plotted to get Mr. Trump to the White House — have exploited. On shows like “The Real Housewives,” seasoned viewers learn to expect behavior that most people couldn’t get away with in real life. We want the real housewives to fight with each other; we exult in the horror of a 23-year-old “Bachelor” contestant who still has a full-time nanny. Viewers come to expect that a certain level of drama will be carefully maintained, and quickly acclimate to the strikingly low standard of human interaction on display. As the chaos of President Trump’s White House becomes more familiar, something similar appears to be happening on the political stage. In spite of the many warnings against “normalizing” this administration, we can’t exist in a permanent state of shock. As we gobble up news reports on the most microscopic details of the roiling theatrics inside the West Wing, we are undoubtedly developing a higher tolerance for belligerence and melodrama. Jennifer Pozner, author of the 2010 book, “Reality Bites Back: The Troubling Truth About Guilty Pleasure TV,” has noted that reality shows can distort our conception of acceptable behavior. Even though most of us are reluctant to admit that we are susceptible to such manipulation these shows can, in a sneaky way, negotiate down our ethical expectations in a way that occasionally bleeds into real life. This administration, consciously or not, threatens to do the same thing to our understanding of politics. Much like the dramatic unveiling of Neil Gorsuch’s nomination to the Supreme Court, the announcement that the United States — the world’s biggest carbon polluter — would leave a historic climate pact was a moment of serious consequence, shrouded in a layer of entertainment. Now the whole world is a captive audience.