Lincoln, Neb. — One of the first things I did when I moved to Nebraska two years ago was find myself some cows to herd. I’d moved to a state that proudly says it has more than three times as many cows as it does people in order to take a job at the University of Nebraska in Lincoln, the state’s capital. I learned that in what would be my first year teaching there, roughly 25 percent of the entering freshman class would be first-generation college students. I had this in common with them, but there was a key difference: Many of these first-Gen students came from rural backgrounds, from families in which work centered on cattle and corn. I’d grown up in Miami, had gone to a high school whose population rivaled that of some entire Nebraskan towns. I decided that to be better at my job, I needed to see the real Nebraska, whatever that meant. I found a website for a ranch in a town considered to be the rodeo capital of Nebraska. No spa day, no golf or yoga, the ranch’s website warned. I would be driving the herd. I was told to expect to spend at least six hours a day on a horse. I’d never been on a horse for longer than it took to take a picture of me on one. I signed up immediately. Upon calling to confirm the trip, the woman on the phone — who ended up being the wife of the rancher, the whole enterprise of getting tourists to pay to work the ranch being mostly her idea — told me to be sure to bring a hat. “A cowboy hat with a stampede string would be best,” she said. I wrote down stampede string to Google later and asked if a baseball cap would suffice. “The tops of your ears will burn,” she said. “But if that’s what you have, that’s what you have.” I told her I didn’t sunburn easily because — and here I stuttered — because I’d grown up in Miami. I’d lived in Nebraska about a month at that point, and in the middle of that phone conversation, it hit me that leading with the fact that I was Latina might make my hosts a little less excited to meet me. This was before an ugly presidential campaign and eventual presidency taught me to be afraid of my new neighbors. The woman laughed into the phone and said, “Well! I don’t think we’ve ever had someone from Miami come stay with us.” And she gave me the heads up that there would be a film crew there for part of my stay. “Some French folks,” she said. The French folks turned out to be four guys who never bothered to clarify their names to me. They were boy-bandish in nature; I thought of them as “The Leader,” “The Wanna-Be Leader” (he was the main character in the documentary), “The One with The Long Hair” (their camera person) and “The Other One” (his presence is blurry in every picture I took). They arrived at the ranch by cab: They’d flagged one down at Omaha Airport and somehow persuaded the driver to take them more than 200 miles to the ranch. Before the cabdriver left, I ran up to his window and asked him the fare. “Over 500 bucks,” he said. “Those jerks didn’t even tip.” They were at the ranch to film part of a documentary about completing an American-themed bucket list for French hipsters: They were doing everything American, and they were there to be real cowboys. After a couple of days, it was my sense that the rancher in charge of us wasn’t a huge fan of those guys, mostly because of the way they often rode their horses very quickly in directions that he didn’t want them to take, which freaked out (and therefore scattered) the cows. I wasn’t much of a fan either, in part because they were showing me the ugly side of what I was really doing there: They were there to say they’d been there. I was doing the same thing, really, hiding behind the excuse that it would make me a more empathetic instructor.  One morning, I tucked cookies from the previous night’s dinner into my saddlebag for that day’s ride. The six hours a day on a horse turned out to be a conservative estimate, and I needed snacks. Cookies were a bad choice, though, because the chocolate melted in the heat and left my hands sticky, and also because the rancher took to calling me Cookie Monster once he caught me eating one while atop my horse, yelling out, “Let’s go, Cookie Monster,” every time I’d lagged too far behind. To shake off the Cookie Monster label, I tried to be on the rancher’s team when it came to dealing with the French film crew. Over dinner one night, one of the filmmakers tried to talk to us all about wine (there was no wine on the table; the rancher was strictly a spirits man, from what I could tell). I knew enough about wine to understand what he was talking about, but I kept that knowledge tucked away, instead turning to the rancher with a face that said, Can you believe these fancy jerks? The Frenchman then began talking about how we Americans ate turkey on the Fourth of July. “Why do you do this?” he asked, and even though I realized right away he was confused — he meant Thanksgiving — I kept my mouth shut. The Frenchman was talking so much because during every meal, from the minute we walked in, the TV perched at the end of the dining table was on and permanently set to Fox News, volume low but audible. No one acknowledged the noise, but the Frenchman was trying to drown it out. Another thing that went unacknowledged, at least until the end of my time there: The rancher had only one thumb, the result of having swung a bad dale with a lasso. “The speed and heat from the rope take it clean off,” another ranch guest — this one a regular from Colorado who came back season after season for a work-vacation — explained to me. “You see a lot of old rodeo guys without thumbs,” he said. The word “dale” (pronounced DAH-lee) is taken from the Spanish word the Mexican cowboys — vaqueros — yelled as they tossed their lassos. It’s a skill American cowboys learned from them. I looked all this up once I was back in Lincoln because hearing this Nebraskan Sandhill cowboy saying “Dale!” as if singing along to Pitbull’s latest made me think there had to be a connection. I don’t know if the rancher knows the origin of this word, of how it ended up in his mouth. The connection might seem to him as strange as finding a French film crew playing cowboy on his ranch for a few days. Or as wrong as thinking that a few days on a cattle ranch can teach you all you need to know about the people in your new community. Or it might be as jarring as something I felt on my last day there: sitting atop a horse, my eyes closed, the Nebraska wind rolling over the Sandhills and thrashing miles and miles of waist-high grasses, me swearing the chaos of it sounded exactly like the crashing of the ocean back in Miami. There was no denying it. There was no drowning it out.