LONDON — The first thing that popped up on my Twitter feed in the aftermath of the terror attack in London on Saturday night was a photo of the evacuation. As I scrolled my timeline, I saw footage of people leaving the scene in orderly lines. Londoners offered cups of tea and a sofa to anybody in need of either. Others politely asked people to follow Transport for London’s travel advice. One man tweeted a photo of himself and friends from a pub in Vauxhall, around the corner from the attack. He wanted to let people know that they were safe — and that they were drinking gin to Madonna’s “Like A Prayer.” These moments encapsulated something about Britain’s calm, defiant response to the threat of terror. Even as we face an increasing number of attacks, we are learning to cope with grief, loss and violence in our own way. Saturday night was the third terror attack in Britain in the last three months. On March 22, Khalid Masood, a 52-year-old Briton, drove a car into pedestrians on Westminster Bridge, killing three people and injuring at least 50, before emerging from his vehicle and fatally stabbing a police officer. On May 22, a bomb was set off outside an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester by 22-year-old Briton Salman Abedi, killing 22. In the face of this, we’re choosing vigilance, calm and just a little bit of humor. And any fear projected on to us will be met with a very British response: Sarcasm. On Sunday morning, CNN spoke of London’s streets being “eerily quiet” following the attack. Brits were quick to react. Later on, Andre Walker, an American journalist who writes for The New York Observer,  tweeted a photo of himself standing on Parliament terrace wielding a sword. With the photo, he wrote: “A bounty on my head. Any #ISIS terrorist that kills me gets £50k. I’ll give my address. No police. But I’ve got a sword. Good luck.” The photo was mercilessly mocked, and he deleted the tweet a few hours later — but not before it was turned into a photoshopped meme. A New York Times headline that said that London was “reeling” from the Manchester attack also became the subject of British Twitter’s wrath. Brits turned #ThingsThatLeaveBritainReeling into a hashtag that started to trend higher than the news of the attack itself. Of course, Americans are going to be quick to trot out the few outliers like Katie Hopkins, a columnist for the Daily Mail website, who said of the London attack on Sunday: A few hours later, Ms. Hopkins was invited as a guest on Fox News, warning Americans that: “People are cowed. People are afraid. And people are not united.” Ms. Hopkins may now serve as Britain’s mouthpiece to millions of Americans, but she does not speak for all of us. Saturday’s attack showed that some people crave chaos and carnage when terror strikes but, in that regard, Brits tend to disappoint. What we are good at is cups of tea, sarcastic tweets and holding on to our pint of beer in troubling times.