The box office has made its ruling, and the verdict is clear. You can’t keep a wonderful woman down. “Wonder Woman,” which opened this weekend, is a mammoth hit, meeting the most optimistic expectations and setting up its director, Patty Jenkins, for a place in the record books. It’s on track to earn between $90 and $105 million domestically by Monday morning, according to industry projections. That’s the best debut ever for a movie directed by a woman. And it’s an enormous relief. Does anyone doubt that if “Wonder Woman” had flopped, Hollywood chieftains would have drawn sweeping and cynical conclusions about the potency of female superheroes, female directors, female everything? Now we’ll see if they read as much into the success of “Wonder Woman.” Forgive me if I have doubts. You actually can keep a good woman down — many good women down — and Hollywood has done precisely that when it comes to the people they choose for major directing jobs. My colleague Maureen Dowd explored this stark gender disparity in a cover story for The Times’s magazine in late 2015, noting that in the previous two years, “women were only 1.9 percent of the directors for the 100 top-grossing films.” “Excluding their art-house divisions, the six major studios released only three movies last year with a female director,” Dowd added, referring to 2014. And since then? According to The Hollywood Reporter, women represented 9 percent of the directors of the 250 top-grossing movies domestically in 2015 and just 7 percent last year. “Wonder Woman” is an important challenge to that unconscionable imbalance. It’s an equally important step toward more big-screen portrayals of female characters as strong, independent leaders. There’s been some improvement on that front, perhaps best exemplified by “The Hunger Games” franchise, but in the realm of superheroes, women have continued to lag far behind, as I noted in a column in late 2013 about how often a “Wonder Woman” movie had been contemplated, how long the wait for it was turning out to be, and how determined Hollywood was to mint new male superheroes in the meantime. I observed that “Paul Rudd was in talks to play ‘Ant-Man.’ Yes, ‘Ant-Man.’ ‘The Green Hornet,’ ‘Spider-Man’ — maybe Wonder Woman isn’t insect enough for the major leagues. Maybe she needs to make like a mantis.” In Jenkins’s movie — which has received terrific reviews from critics and high grades from audiences, and is enormous fun — she makes like an idealist who would never think to outsource her safety, her judgment, her anything to a man. Having grown up on an all-woman island far from the rest of the world, she carries no grudges or aspirations regarding the treatment of women. In her experience, women have always been in charge and have always been self-sufficient. That’s just the natural state of things. But if she’s blissfully unaware of the oppression of “the weaker sex,” “Wonder Woman” isn’t. The screenplay, by Allan Heinberg, alludes to it repeatedly without ever going overboard, turning the movie into a sly commentary on the arrogance, folly and cruelty of men. On Wonder Woman’s island, one of her elders reprimands her: “You expect a battle to be fair. A battle will never be fair.” As Wonder Woman leaves that paradise to intervene in World War I, her mother tells her to “be careful in the world of men.” “They do not deserve you,” she adds. But my favorite exchange comes in a subsequent scene in London, where Wonder Woman, beautifully played by Gal Gadot, listens as a female secretary details all the duties that she performs for her male boss. “Where I’m from,” Wonder Woman says, “that’s called slavery.” The Times Square theater in which I saw the movie on Saturday afternoon erupted in especially enthusiastic laughter and clapping at that moment, and at similar ones, and the audience had more men than women in it. There has been hubbub elsewhere, as there always is these days. A few movie theaters staged women-only showings of “Wonder Woman,” to which some men cried foul. The director Joss Whedon, who’d long contemplated making a “Wonder Woman” movie himself, had a clever retort to that, writing on Twitter that there had already been a man-only screening, because he’d seen “Wonder Woman” alone. I also spotted an inevitable complaint that the movie was too politically correct. But I’m intent on happier thoughts, like the following ones, all of which push back at legitimate concerns about regress in the era of Donald Trump. (Yes, I had to bring him up. It’s a new rule in American life: no more than 15 paragraphs of journalism or 15 minutes of conversation without a “Trump.”) The producer, director and writer Ryan Murphy is championing female directors through a resolve to give at least 50 percent of the directing jobs on his television series — which include “American Crime Story,” “American Horror Story” and “Feud ”— to women, people of color or L.G.B.T. people. The first season of “Feud,” which explored the relationship between Joan Crawford and Bette Davis, wasn’t simply fantastic; it was one of the sharpest, most painful examinations ever of how brutally and reductively so many women are treated as they grow older, particularly in Hollywood. The lineup of Sunday-night television that “Feud” was a part of also included “Girls,” “Big Little Lies” and more: a trove of meaty, juicy roles for actresses of all ages. Sofia Coppola just won the best director prize at Cannes, for her movie “The Beguiled,” becoming only the second woman to nab that award. It’s ridiculous that there have only been two. But two is a whole lot better than one. And now here’s “Wonder Woman,” proving that magical bracelets can have the same power — both on the battlefield and at the box office — as a flashy codpiece. She’s fresher than any “Batman” of late and fiercer than any “Superman” of recent vintage, but she’s lonely. May her sorority expand, and fast.