This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. First, for some perspective on the latest London attack, you can read Juliette Kayyem, Rossalyn Warren, Jenni Russell or The Times Editorial Board. I want to devote most of today’s newsletter to a debate that broke out this weekend over the history of the Republican Party’s stance on climate policy, sparked by a Times news story on the subject. I’m going to focus on the underlying issues; you can read social media or the reader-comment section for the back-and-forth about the article. The big question is why the Republican Party has adopted a position at odds with science and with every other major country (including those run by conservatives). The basic answer is that the party has become radicalized over the last generation. Its denial of climate science is of a piece with its shutdown of the government; an unprecedented refusal to fill a Supreme Court seat; efforts to prevent American citizens from voting; abandonment of fiscal conservatism; attempts to take health insurance away; and the nomination of Donald Trump, among many other things. Exactly why the party has been radicalized — rather than remaining a conservative governing party — is not a simple story, and certainly not one I’ll try to cover this morning. But it is the central answer to the climate question, undramatic as it may be. There was no aha! moment on climate that, if only it had gone a little differently, would have meant that the Republican Party would have a different position on climate change today. Its opposition to action on climate change stretches back decades. George W. Bush’s administration was aggressively anti-climate, allowing energy lobbyists to shape policy and refusing to implement the Kyoto Protocol. Republican leaders in Congress through the 1990s and since have staked out similar positions. The one major exception was John McCain, including his 2008 presidential campaign. But his position was never the dominant one within the Republican Party. And more recently, even McCain has largely stopped being a climate advocate. Winning over Republicans to a different climate stance is one of the most urgent tasks in politics. As I wrote last week, Democrats, moderates and other people concerned about the climate should ask themselves hard questions about what a more persuasive message might sound like. But climate advocates shouldn’t distract themselves by thinking that the Republican position on climate change might be different if only recent history had taken a somewhat different turn. Speaking of finding a more persuasive message on climate change: Thank you to the hundreds of readers who wrote me Friday and over the weekend with ideas for doing so. I’ll revisit the topic, with the benefit of your smart ideas, soon. Also: If you’re voting in Britain’s election, please consider sharing your thoughts with us on Facebook. We may contact you to hear more and feature some responses in upcoming coverage.