Canterbury, England — A wallet soaked in urine with nothing inside except a driver’s license from Bermuda. That’s probably the weirdest thing I’ve had to file in the lost and found, the handling of which I help oversee as a security guard at Canterbury Christ Church University in England. I’ve had the job for over 10 years, and I still enjoy it as much as the night I started, when the manager handed me a Maglite torch and a set of keys so heavy they made my trousers sound like wind chimes. The spring term is ending. After a few more weeks of exams, parties and paralyzing hangovers, the students will attend an annual summer ball and leave campus. Once everything has been swept up, it will be security’s job to help look after the summer conference guests. University staff and Ph.D. students will also still be here, working through the break. If someone asked me to describe my job in a sentence, I’d say it’s to keep students, staff and visitors safe. Patching up students who’ve hurt themselves, or who are lonely and want to talk, is always my top priority. Other routine duties include stopping fire alarms, locking doors and watching CCTV. And very occasionally, taking calls from a parent who’s convinced a ghost has stolen her son’s crockery. On the day shift, my 12 hours of duty begin early — I’m up when most students are just falling out of the taxi. I check on my sleeping daughter, then after squats and porridge, it’s off to unlock all the buildings on campus so the teaching staff can start early. Unlike some campus security guards I’ve seen on YouTube, my colleagues and I don’t get to fly around on Segways or golf buggies. Every assignment, barring emergencies at remote sites, is completed on foot. The latest recruit to our shift says her Fitbit recorded almost 14 miles in one day. If you’re running to provide first aid or chasing escaped ducklings out of the coffee shop, the mileage can be even more impressive. The longest I’ve ever run in one go was the half mile from campus into the town center to find two winos passed out in both entrances to our finance building. It was rush hour, so the roads were clogged: I ran because driving would have been pointless. All the while, I kept praying that both intruders weren’t violent or train wreck drunks. Throughout the day we’re on call for everything from newly arrived freshmen — they often need directions, keys and reassurance — to royal visits and pizza deliveries. Our rule of thumb is to treat everyone on campus, and in the immediate surroundings, the same: I’ll never forget the call we got about an “unconscious tramp” in a toilet cubicle who turned out to be a tutor overindulging in Candy Crush on his lunch hour. We don’t carry weapons, and we don’t have the right to search students unless they agree to it. Luckily, it seems most drug users are smart enough to feed their habit outside of smell range. Still, there’s always one student who thinks he can indulge in something illicit and still appear normal. To the ravers out there: Rest assured, our teen years and twenties were spent as recklessly as yours. When you come to us for help with pupils like tunnels and a gleaming forehead, we know it’s not because you’re carsick. There are some very inspiring elements to the job. In my time, I’ve seen students do incredible things. One young woman suffering nonepileptic seizures became a Sports Maker — someone responsible for organizing and leading sports in his or her community — and was presented with V.I.P. tickets to the Olympics. A student who used to run riot with fire extinguishers around the residence halls is now a distinguished lecturer with a doctorate, serving the campus. Another graduate went on to host a successful children’s TV show. Inspiration, of course, can take many forms. Some of the drinking games these students come up with should be televised sports. I only hope those who invent them go into events management. Every once in a while, we security guards are called to help out with the problems of nonstudents who live near campus. For example, we helped a local bloke locate his girlfriend after a night of unanswered text messages, and once rehoused several families whose apartment complex caught fire. We’ve also acted as go-betweens when students get into turf wars, like when a group of second-years confronted a 60-year-old neighbor armed with an ongoing noise complaint and a frying pan. The security team has a wide range of background skills to bring to the table however trouble may strike. On my shift alone there’s an ex-dockworker, a business graduate with a master’s degree, a nurse, soldiers and two no-nonsense bikers. I pity any hoodlums who fall afoul of one member of our night crew, an Italian former armed guard who’s had a short fuse ever since Brexit. Before I started in the job, I had the same image of the campus guard in my head as you did: a bloke too fat for the cops, or a mixed martial-arts nerd. Guards like that exist, but they don’t tend to last. Once they realize you do more talking in this job than throwing punches, and take one look at the salary, they check out. It’s true, the money’s not fantastic, but I wouldn’t want to do anything else. The buzz I get from helping people is up there with scoring a football goal, or perhaps, remembering a password I thought I’d forgotten. Plus, I get to see people shaping their futures every day. Who’d want to swap that for breathing office air?