A few months ago, I gave a reading at a local bookstore. A small but enthusiastic crowd attended, and I confessed to the audience filled with emerging writers that I had, in my 20s and early 30s, stopped writing for eight years, and that I had accepted I’d never write again. Then someone asked, “How did you return to writing?” I decided to tell the truth: Zoloft. I began flipping light switches on and off (always in fives) in third grade. My frugal parents were aghast at the waste of electricity. I tried to explain. I had to flip the switches. Or else something bad would happen, to me, to them. We were all in danger — my younger brother, my school friends, even my pets. I assumed that my fears were rational and that my school friends were like me, worrying all the time. As my obsessions accumulated, the dread throbbed more insistently, and my rituals became more complex. I counted in fives all day at school, my teeth clicking in time so much my teacher grew annoyed by the sound, and when the last school bell rang, my jaw was sore. My nightly prayers became a chant I had to recite 20, then 50 and, later, 100 times. Now that I am a mother, it astounds me that I was able to hide my rituals from my family — but I felt I had no choice. As the daughter of an Italian immigrant who survived unimaginable horrors — poverty, plague, war, domestic violence, the death of his baby sister because of a lack of basic health care — I heard one word over and over again. “Forte.” Strength. Weakness or, to be more specific, showing or admitting to weakness, seemed both un-Italian and un-American. I was raised in a historic whaling village on Long Island. Every year our grade school class field-tripped to the town museum, where we heard stories about courageous Dutch and English settlers who harpooned and lanced whales before towing them ashore and using their flensing knives to cut blubber into long strips. The stories taught us that America was bedrocked with self-reliance and fortitude. Books were my only haven — the ultimate distraction from my obsessive fears, a release from the exhausting work of protecting myself from unseen doom. I read until my vision blurred. Until the librarian in our small town library had nothing else to suggest. I read under my bedcovers with a flashlight until the morning warbling of the forest birds sounded. When I began writing short stories in college, the escape proved even fuller. Still, by my senior year, my illness had worsened. My panic attacks grew so intense I fainted several times. I suffered weekly migraines — the pain a bittersweet break from worrying — but I refused help. Many of my favorite authors had suffered from anxiety or depression — Dostoyevsky, Fitzgerald, Plath, Woolf and Emily Dickinson, with whom I felt a special migraine-sufferer kinship. I sought out biographies of these tortured artists and underlined the details of their suffering until the pages were covered in multicolored highlighter. Surely, I told myself, their anguish was linked to their greatness. Instead of fleeing anxiety and depression (although many did douse their emotional instability with alcohol), they dived in and used their misery as inspiration for their creative work. I was convinced that killing the mad part of me with medication would also kill that which made me unique. I memorized a line by Proust: “Happiness is beneficial for the body, but it is grief that develops the powers of the mind.” At 22, I saw a psychiatrist. He said I had obsessive-compulsive disorder and gave me a prescription for an antidepressant called Serzone. Perhaps it was the O.C.D. diagnosis that helped me take that slip of paper from the doctor’s hand. After so many years of vague fear, imagining that there was an inscrutable sickness growing in me, I now had a concrete way to describe my suffering. The meds stopped the panic attacks. The noise in my head, the worries I imagined as an infinite loop of snakes, one biting the tail of the snake in front, quieted some. When I walked down the street on a sunny afternoon, I heard children laughing, wine glasses clinking on a neighbor’s porch, piano music wafting from a curtained window. I heard life. For the next 13 years, I went on and off a variety of antidepressants, antipsychotics, even one anti-seizure medication. As soon as the obsessive fears vanished, I’d wean off a medication, tired of side effects that ranged from weight gain to insomnia to hives. But each time I went off a medication, I returned to a state so unstable I couldn’t recognize the irrationality of my thoughts. After I graduated from the Iowa Writers’ Workshop at 25, my first novel failed to sell and as my new husband and I struggled to find jobs and make rent in a post-9/11 economy, I entered a seven-year-long episode of severe anxiety and depression. I spent those years not writing, a secret I hid from my students who were winning awards for their fiction, and from my editing clients whose novels were acquired (one after another, it seemed to me in my dejected state) by major publishing houses. I accepted that I wasn’t a writer after all — my grad school professors had been wrong. I had plenty of excuses for why I wasn’t writing. I was teaching as an adjunct professor every day of the week and holding private writing workshops in my home at night; I was raising a small business and two children; I had writer’s block; I needed to grow up, find material worth writing about, join a writers’ space, get a new computer. Really I was trapped in a cycle of anxiety. How could I succeed at the marathonlike task of writing a novel when I couldn’t leave my apartment most days, certain a catastrophe would befall me and my small children? High on my list was a fear of illness — flu, cancer, meningitis, flesh-eating disease. You name it, I worried over it. I am still, years later, ashamed to admit that, each night, I stopped my husband at our apartment’s threshold, made him take off the clothes he’d worn on his subway commute and disinfect his hands before he walked through the door. It was my newborn daughter’s pediatrician who gave me my first prescription for Zoloft a few days after her birth. I have swallowed my pills faithfully since that day, partly because I have finally found a medication that helped me without side effects, but more important, because I have become a stronger person, mother, partner and writer. One specific pill is not a cure for everyone, and most people will live healthy lives without medication, but Zoloft was, and still is, my brain chemistry miracle. I haven’t had a panic attack in seven years. I had the focus necessary to return to writing and I wrote my first published novel, “Cutting Teeth.” I also possessed a new resilience that helped me cope with the long process of seeking publication — with its highs and lows, its triumphs and many rejections. Although the noise of my O.C.D. has been turned down a notch, I am still scared of the dark, and many other things. I am still myself. In fact, I am more myself than ever, able to tap veins of creativity and insight I never knew existed, once buried under the clamor of anxiety. My writing, too, was born again. Glimmers of redemption sprang in my dark, and often tragic, stories. I can now see the infinite spectrum of emotion in all its nuanced hues, not just the black and white of despair and joy. There are many who claim that antidepressants stifle creativity. Years ago, at the height of my instability, my husband and I saw “A Beautiful Mind,” and I thought, if John Nash can cure himself of his schizophrenia by sheer willpower, I should be able to stop obsessing. It was this cruel expectation of myself that filled my 20s and 30s with self-loathing. I try not to think of all the moments of joy I lost during that time, or the thousands of words I could not write, all because of my fear that medication would kill my creative muse. I told a shortened version of this story to the audience in the bookstore. When I finished, a poet in the front row with a cascade of red curls raised her hand. She, too, had been unable to write for years before seeking treatment for anxiety. Others chimed in, a few sharing stories about how therapy, medication or a combination of the two had helped them find confidence in their creative work. Others thanked us for our honesty. I once feared that, if I changed, the world would end. But I have stepped into a better world that continues to astonish me, that has my (still obsessive) mind seeking not just danger around every corner but also wonder. Standing in that bookstore, sharing my true self with the small audience, I can almost see the pages of the books I will someday write. I’m ready and I have some catching up to do.