As a drug salesman, Mike Courtney worked hard to make health care expensive. He wined and dined doctors, golfed with them and bought lunch for their entire staffs — all to promote pills often costing thousands of dollars a year. He’s on a different mission now: When he calls on doctors, he champions generic drugs that frequently cost pennies and work just as well as the kinds of expensive brands he used to push. Instead of Big Pharma, he works for Capital District Physicians’ Health Plan, an Albany, N.Y., insurer. Instead of maximizing pill profits, his job is to save millions of dollars by educating doctors about expensive prescription drugs and the stratagems used to sell them. “Having come from Big Pharma, I do really feel my soul has been cleansed,” Courtney said with a laugh. He formerly worked for Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson. “I do feel like I’m more in touch with the physicians” and plan members, he added. Costs for prescription drugs — including generics alongside brand names — have been rising faster than those for any other health care category, marked by high-profile cases such as the reported 400 percent increase for Mylan’s EpiPen and a 5,000 percent spike for Turing Pharmaceuticals’ Daraprim. Health plans and others paying those costs are fighting back. Many have tried to give doctors academic research on pill effectiveness to help prescribers evaluate claims made by drug sales representatives, or have simply removed high-cost drugs from coverage lists. Consumer groups and medical societies have tried to spread the word about expensive drugs. One start-up, GoodRx, lets patients compare retail prices online. C.D.P.H.P., the Albany organization, is one of the few insurers to have taken the battle against expensive pills a step further. It recruits across enemy lines, hiring former Big Pharma representatives and staffing what may be a new job category: a sales force for cost-effective medicine. “Insurers are taking matters into their own hands,” said Lea Prevel Katsanis, a marketing professor at Concordia University in Quebec, who specializes in the pharmaceutical industry. “They’re saying, ‘We can’t really rely on drug companies to talk to doctors about what’s cost-efficient.’ ” If insurance companies can curb drug costs, premiums paid by employers, taxpayers and consumers would presumably be under less pressure to rise. Two years ago, when one company increased the cost of a common diabetes medicine to 20 times what it had been a few years earlier, Courtney and five other former pharma and medical-device representatives working for C.D.P.H.P. knew what to do. Valeant Pharmaceuticals had cranked up the price of a common dosage of Glumetza, a medicine for lowering blood sugar, to an astonishing $81,270 a year, according to Truven Health Analytics, a data firm. Meanwhile a similar generic version could be bought for as little as a penny a pill. Because Glumetza was on C.D.P.H.P.’s list of approved drugs, the insurer and its members had to pay for it when doctors prescribed it, resulting in millions of dollars in extra costs and stinging co-payments for patients. Dr. Eric Schnakenberg, an upstate New York family medicine doctor, was shocked when patients began complaining about what he had assumed was an inexpensive prescription. Doctors, as a group, are famously unaware about the cost of the care they order, a situation that can be exploited by drug sellers and other vendors. While electronic prescribing programs for physicians and even pharmaceutical guides like the Physicians’ Desk Reference contain information about how to prescribe — some are even peppered with ads — they typically contain no specific information about prices. Drug sales representatives who visit their offices don’t highlight high prices as they drop off free samples, and drug makers can quietly, but substantially, hike the price of a drug from one year to the next. “As physicians, we’re blindsided by that,” Dr. Schnakenberg said. “We get patient complaints saying, ‘Hey, I can’t afford this,’ and we say: ‘It’s cheap!’ ” After Courtney and his colleagues alerted doctors to Valeant’s practices, all but a handful of the 60 plan members who were taking Glumetza switched to metformin, the generic alternative. That saved about $5 million in a year. Following an outcry over its practices, Valeant agreed last year to raise annual prices by no more than single-digit percentages, the company said through a spokesman. But such hikes could still outpace the inflation rate. The idea to hire Big Pharma representatives originated with John Bennett, a cardiologist, a few years ago, after he became C.D.P.H.P.’s chief executive. He knew that the sales representatives were smart, genial and motivated. Overhiring by the pharmaceutical companies had put many back in the job market. His sales pitch to them, he says half-jokingly, was: “You know everything they taught you in Big Pharma? How would you like to use those powers for good?” Pharmaceutical companies spend billions of dollars on television ads, doctor blandishments and expensive sales representatives to keep prescriptions flowing. Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and other sellers responded to critics a few years ago by restricting gifts of entertainment, coffee mugs and some meals. But the industry’s ethics code still allows lavish consulting contracts for doctors and sponsorship of physician conferences as well as meals for doctors and their staffs who listen to an “informational presentation” about expensive pills. “When those products go generic, nobody’s promoting them anymore,” Courtney said. Makers of generics lack big marketing budgets. C.D.P.H.P.’s remedy: The insurer promotes generics with its own representatives. “It’s a great idea,” said Alan Sorensen, an economist at the University of Wisconsin who has studied drug prices. Referring to doctors, he added that “even a small moving of the needle on their prescribing behavior can have a pretty big impact on costs.” At first, the team concentrated on educating doctors about cheaper alternatives to Lipitor, a widely prescribed cholesterol-lowering medicine, and Nexium, for stomach problems. That saved about $10 million the first year, much in the form of co-payments that would have been owed by plan members. Recently the plan has focused on Seroquel, a branded antipsychotic that costs far more than a similar generic. Switching to the generic saves an estimated $600 to $1,000 a month, according to Eileen Wood, the insurer’s vice president of pharmacy and health quality. C.D.P.H.P.’s repurposed representatives have helped keep the insurer’s annual drug-cost increases to single-digit percentages, she said, adding that without them and other measures, “we would certainly be well into double-digit” increases. Educating doctors about drug costs is part of a larger push for “transparency” in an industry where the Princeton economist Uwe Reinhardt says consumers face the same experience as somebody shopping in Macy’s blindfolded. A new study co-authored by Sorensen has found that physicians with access to data about drug prices and insurance coverage are more likely to prescribe generics. That gives Courtney and his colleagues a fighting chance, even if, he said, “we don’t have the freewheeling, unlimited green Amex card like I did back in the day.”