WASHINGTON — Congress will hear testimony on Wednesday on the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, part of which is set to expire at the end of the year. It will be debating the fate of an authority — the FISA Amendments Act — that has helped thwart terrorist attacks around the world. The most important section under consideration, Section 702, allows a federal court to approve and supervise, under specific conditions, the collection of information on foreign persons, in foreign countries, who happen to use American communications services and internet technology. The authority has existed and Congress has reauthorized it under two administrations. Congress created Section 702 authority to address an intelligence-collection gap that resulted from the evolution of technology in the years after FISA became law in 1978. This gap allowed foreign terrorists to benefit from the legal protections enjoyed by American citizens. On Tuesday, Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, proposed a bill to permanently reauthorize Section 702 without modification. The Trump administration supports his bill, without condition. While there are many examples of the value of this tool, they are likely to remain classified for years to preserve our national security. But in one instance that is public, intelligence collected under Section 702 helped prevent Al Qaeda’s Najibullah Zazi from conducting a suicide bombing on the New York City subway. Simply put, the use of this authority has helped save lives. Yet there are two serious misconceptions about what Section 702 permits the government to do that threaten the reauthorization. First, it does not permit the targeting of Americans. The authority expressly forbids intentional targeting of a United States person for surveillance. Electronic surveillance of Americans, or even foreigners inside the United States, requires an individual court order supported by probable cause. Second, it does not permit backdoor targeting of Americans, whose communications with foreign persons can be incidentally captured in the process. National security officials may use search terms or identifiers associated with Americans, such as an email address, to query the information lawfully acquired using Section 702 authority. But this does not entail the collection or search of any new information, and the practice has been upheld by the FISA court and all other federal courts that have considered this issue. It is also consistent with the long history of our legal system. Imposing a warrant requirement to conduct such data queries, as some in Congress have proposed, would be legally unnecessary and a step toward re-erecting pre-9/11 barriers to our ability to identify foreign terrorists and their contacts. Over nearly a decade of rigorous oversight, no intentional abuse of the Section 702 authority has ever been identified, and the government has quickly taken action to rectify unintentional mistakes. The Section 702 authority has enabled actionable warnings of violent attacks and the collection of information about weapons proliferators and cyberhackers. And it has revealed other threats to our nation’s security. Nevertheless, any surveillance authority is powerful and must be exercised with prudence and care. Congress engineered Section 702 with substantial constraints, and it is implemented with rigorous oversight by all three branches of our government. The government’s internal training, oversight, technology and inspector-general regime, along with oversight by the Department of Justice, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board — which deserves special praise — and Congress, all ensure that the government uses these important authorities properly. Safeguarding our nation consists of not only protecting us from threats abroad, but also ensuring we have the appropriate balance of security and privacy in the tools the government uses. There are indeed legitimate privacy concerns with any surveillance, but the significant statutory and oversight protocols address those concerns. Under President Barack Obama, the National Security Agency used the authority more broadly to acquire internet communications about foreign intelligence targets. Under President Trump’s leadership, we have refined the application of this authority to target only those internet communications sent directly to or from a lawful foreign intelligence target. This smart choice will reduce incidental collection on Americans without sacrificing our security. We proposed, and the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court approved, the new procedures, which achieve this goal and protect Americans’ privacy. Cabinet officials and security professionals from different agencies will testify on this matter on Wednesday. President Trump stands with them 100 percent on the need for permanent reauthorization of Section 702. Officials from the past two administrations also agree that we cannot have a blind spot in our defenses simply because a foreign terrorist on foreign land chooses an American email provider. We cannot allow adversaries abroad to cloak themselves in the legal protections we extend to Americans. And Section 702 is one of the most effective tools for identifying and preventing threats. Congress should do its part to make America safe again and leave the politics of distraction for another day.