Across the street from Citi Field in Queens there is a hidden corner of New York known as the Iron Triangle. It’s a shantytown of scrap yards and auto body shops, flanked by three intersecting streets that form a triangle. In the morning hours, as people convene on the dirt roads while sea gulls flock overhead, the neighborhood of Willets Point seems a world away from what many of us think of New York City, with its upswell of luxury apartments and gentrification. In fact, New York City is demolishing it. Redevelopment plans for Willets Point have been in place for several years; in 2007, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg first announced his intention to turn the Iron Triangle into the “next great neighborhood” with more than 5,000 apartments, a convention center and office space. Parts of it have already been razed. As we shot this film over two weeks in early 2017, the neighborhood seemed to be vanishing as quickly as we filmed it. Some buildings we shot on camera were gone just a few days later. We wanted to make a film that captured what it feels like to work in a place that, like so many parts of this nation, is facing imminent change. Making this film, we spent a lot of time with the remaining shop owners, who are largely immigrants. (Before demolition began, Willets Point hosted around 225 businesses, largely owned by Latinos, and employed around 1,700 workers who earned less than $140 a day.) They are facing uncertainty, not only for their businesses but also for their family legacies in America. While searching for a central voice for our film, we began asking people, “Who has been in the neighborhood the longest? Who can give us a generational perspective on Willets Point?” One name kept coming up: Sam Sambucci. Mr. Sambucci, a third-generation scrap yard owner, spoke compellingly about Willets Point, his family legacy and his concerns for the future. We originally expected to tell a story about gentrification through his perspective. But toward the end of our first conversation, Mr. Sambucci said something that changed our vision of the story: “There’s no visual beauty here, but I see past the dirty streets. The American dream is absolutely alive here in Willets Point.” His feelings about the value and beauty of diverse communities seemed to transcend the confines of his community. It transformed the story from a eulogy of a neighborhood into a celebration of the immigrant, working-class culture that is truly American.