The death penalty, like abortion, is one of those hot-button topics that keeps popping up into the public consciousness, a roach motel for meretricious ideas and bad public policy — including racism. I would bet that if it involved putting white people to death for killing black people, it would have been abolished years ago. Still, it persists. Except our society — until recently — has come to believe that overt expressions of racism might not be a good thing. Better to keep a fig leaf over it than to explore its underbelly. In 1972, the Supreme Court found in the 5-4 decision of Furman v. Georgia that the death penalty as practiced in this country was unconstitutional under the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments. But the majority couldn’t agree on a rationale for its decision, so instead of one majority opinion, five separate concurrences were produced. While Justices Brennan and Marshall found the death penalty itself to be cruel and unusual punishment, Justices Stewart, White and Douglas focused on its arbitrariness, leaving the door wide open for states to rejigger their statutes and return to executions. In 1973, Texas did just that — the sentencing phase of a capital trial was separated from the guilt phase, and the jury was asked to consider “whether there is a probability that the defendant would commit criminal acts of violence that would constitute a continuing threat to society [future dangerousness].” In response to the Furman decision, Governor Preston Smith commuted the death sentences of 52 inmates in Texas, clearing out death row entirely. In 1976, consolidating cases from five different states (Georgia, Florida, Texas, North Carolina and Louisiana), the court in Gregg v. Georgia found that the death penalty was not unconstitutional in every case. Executions in Texas, now by lethal injection — Old Sparky, the Texas electric chair, had been retired — started back up in 1982. I first became involved with all this while making my film “The Thin Blue Line.” I had read about Dr. James Grigson, an expert witness regularly called by the state of Texas. Some referred to him as “Dr. Death” because he would routinely find that the defendant posed a risk of future dangerousness, and thus should be executed. I met with Dr. Grigson in 1985, and on his recommendation I started interviewing Texas death row inmates. Among those Dr. Grigson had testified posed a risk of future dangerousness was Randall Dale Adams, a convicted cop killer — or at least, so it seemed. Advertisement My film was finished, and Mr. Adams was exonerated. I had thought — stupidly, it turned out — that Dr. Grigson had been put out of business. Not so. The “dangerousness” provision of the Texas law remained very much in place. But I forgot about it. I had done my fair share of good — got an innocent man out of prison. Then, not long ago, I read about the case of Buck v. Davis, decided by the Supreme Court on Feb. 22. Duane Buck had been convicted of capital murder in 1997. He killed his ex-girlfriend and one of her friends. The details of the crime are appalling, but no less appalling is that Dr. Walter Quijano discussed Mr. Buck’s race as a factor in determining his future dangerousness. African-Americans, Dr. Quijano argued, are more likely to commit acts of violence. Though Dr. Quijano opined that Mr. Buck was not a risk of future dangerousness, his testimony about race remained an element for the jury to consider. Dr. Quijano has given similar testimony in other death penalty cases since 1991. Prompted by the Supreme Court’s decision in Saldaño v. Texas (2000), which vacated the sentence of Victor Hugo Saldaño because Dr. Quijano had testified that Mr. Saldaño’s Hispanic ethnicity made him a greater risk of future dangerousness, State Attorney General John Cornyn promised that his office would not object if the other defendants (Mr. Buck among them) sought to overturn their death sentences based on Dr. Quijano’s testimony. In Mr. Buck’s case, though, they did object, claiming that since it was the defense attorney who put Dr. Quijano on the stand and allowed his testimony into the record without objection, the State of Texas owed the defendant nothing. I called Mr. Buck’s attorney Christina Swarns, litigation director of the NAACP Legal Defense & Educational Fund Inc., to discuss the case. _____ CHRISTINA SWARNS: Thank you so much for reaching out about the Duane Buck case. ERROL MORRIS: It brought alive a lot of feelings that go back so many years. One of the horrors of the “Thin Blue Line” case involved the prediction of future violence. You had a psychiatrist, “the hanging psychiatrist,” Dr. James Grigson, who would make predictions of future violence based on a diagnosis of sociopathy. He would testify the defendant is a sociopath and will kill and kill again. I am offended that this law still exists. I believe it came out of the Dallas district attorney’s office and was written with Dr. Grigson in mind. Various prosecutors thought: “We have these psychiatrists in our hip pocket. Why not fashion a law which will allow us to make use of this in the courtroom?” And that is exactly what they did, except they overplayed their hand. As a result many of these cases were retried on grounds of improper jury selection and Fifth Amendment violations. And then 25 years later, along comes Duane Buck. CHRISTINA SWARNS: Everyone was horrified by the fact that the damaging testimony was introduced by the defense counsel. It explicitly, out loud, links race to dangerousness. This is not implicit bias; this is explicit, first-generation racism. This is the good old stuff. And that’s bad, but it’s even worse that his own lawyer brings it in. ERROL MORRIS: Not ineffective counsel, but counsel actively undermining the case. CHRISTINA SWARNS: Predictions of future dangerousness are absurd, and then to be put in a capital punishment box which is already so contaminated by racial bias. The introduction of evidence linking race to dangerousness — like that which was presented in the Duane Buck case — was an inevitable product of future dangerousness in the capital punishment system in Texas. Because the Texas death penalty system was already so contaminated and corrupted by racial bias, the Duane Buck death sentence was a predictable outcome of that mess. ERROL MORRIS: And yet you kept losing in the courts. CHRISTINA SWARNS: Yes. For me, having litigated it for the last six years, I was astonished every time we lost. Clearly someone is going to correct this thing. It plays on so many of the obvious flaws in the system. Advertisement ERROL MORRIS: Can you tell me about the attempts made “to correct this thing”? CHRISTINA SWARNS: When L.D.F. [the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund] first joined the case in 2011, it was in the Supreme Court and it was being conferenced. Buck got an execution date, and Texas Defender Services filed a flurry of litigation bringing the race issue to the attention of the court. The Supreme Court stayed the execution, and we were excited, thinking, “O.K., they’re going to take this case.” And so we waited, and then the Supreme Court denies it in two decisions, which is unusual. They usually don’t explain their decisions, but here we had two decisions, one authored by Justice Alito and joined by — here is the interesting part — Justice Scalia and Justice Breyer. ERROL MORRIS: Breyer joined? [Stephen Breyer was part of the liberal minority on the Supreme Court, along with Elena Kagan, Sonia Sotomayor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. He was an unusual partner to Antonin Scalia and Samuel A. Alito Jr.] CHRISTINA SWARNS: Yes, it was just completely fascinating. Breyer joins Alito and Scalia and they say: The testimony is what they called “bizarre and objectionable,” but this is defense counsel’s fault. They say: The prosecutor just exploited an error made by defense counsel, so you’ve brought the wrong claim. Sotomayor, joined by Kagan, dissents, essentially saying: Are you kidding me? This is terrible. This is racism. It’s all over this case. ERROL MORRIS: And [Justice Clarence] Thomas, in this instance? CHRISTINA SWARNS: He doesn’t speak. He says nothing. But obviously, for us, Breyer joining Alito and Scalia was troubling, to be charitable. So we regroup, and we say, “O.K., oh good Lord, what are we going to do now?” _____ Dr. Quijano’s testimony had been questioned in Buck and other death penalty cases: Q. [The prosecutor] asked you about statistical factors in predicting future dangerousness. When we’re talking about statistics, are we talking about correlation or causation? A. Oh. These statistics are strictly correlation. There’s a big distinction, and we must keep that in mind. Correlation simply says that two events happened — coincidentally happened at the same time. It does not mean that one causes the other. Q. So when we’re talking about these statistical factors — that more men re-offend than women, Hispanics offend more than blacks or whites, people from the low socioeconomic groups offend more than people from the higher socioeconomic groups, people who have opiate addiction or alcohol abuse offend more often than those who don’t, people who have less education offend more often than those who have — do all those things cause people to offend? A. No. They are simply contributing factors. They are not causal factors. One cannot control one’s gender or one’s color. And obviously there are many, many Hispanics, many whites, many Asians who don’t commit crimes. But the frequence [sic] among those who commit crimes, these are the characteristics. They don’t cause each other; they just happen to be coincidental to each other.” Advertisement I find Dr. Quijano’s attempts to explain his methodology ludicrous. If race is a contributing factor but not a causal factor, is the issue whether race is a causal factor among many, or whether it is a causal factor at all? Or is Dr. Quijano having trouble admitting that he does see race as a contributing causal factor? In McCleskey v. Kemp the Supreme Court was asked to consider the statistical evidence of racial discrimination in death sentences reached by one study. The analysis found that defendants accused of killing white victims were 4.3 times more likely to receive the death penalty than defendants accused of killing black victims. The Supreme Court argued that racial discrimination has to be established in individual cases, not in the aggregate. Ironically, the court was perfectly willing to accept weak statistical arguments involving future dangerousness but to reject strong statistical arguments involving race and sentencing. Back to Ms. Swarns. _____ CHRISTINA SWARNS: We regroup and decide to bring a state postconviction challenge back in Texas. Now it’s 2013. We lose. We come back into federal court in 2013 and say: The rules have changed. The Supreme Court said we brought the wrong claim in 2011, but now we’re bringing the right claim; we’re now bringing the ineffective-assistance-of-counsel claim that you basically asked for. This claim was brought to a federal district court judge who we thought would be receptive, based on the nature of the claim and the change in the law. Surprise. She denied it outright, without any apparent sympathy to the claim. She called it de minimis. ERROL MORRIS: De minimis? CHRISTINA SWARNS: Inconsequential. I had personally litigated another case before her, and that was a jury discrimination case on behalf of a Latino, a Mexican-American gentleman on death row in Texas, and she granted relief. I thought from my personal experience that she would be receptive to it, but she was absolutely not. And so we go up to the Fifth Circuit, and the Fifth is equally unreceptive. The panel just completely affirms her decision. We sought rehearing en banc; we asked the full court to review the panel’s decision. And of course we were denied again, with a dissent from a couple of justices on the full panel. ERROL MORRIS: Things are not going well. CHRISTINA SWARNS: No. But we sent it up to the Supreme Court. Our request for Supreme Court review was filed in the spring of last year, and it was conferenced repeatedly. To have this delay and delay and delay and delay, it seemed to me that there might be some disagreement between the justices about whether to take the case. But they did. And it was argued in October, and then, of course, in February, we got a favorable decision from the court. It was 6 to 2 in our favor, but the language of the majority is very strong and unequivocal, and we had worried that it might be less clear, but the majority spoke really clearly, in this case about the inappropriateness of this evidence. ERROL MORRIS: You were repeatedly questioned by Roberts [Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.]. CHRISTINA SWARNS: He kept asking me, But aren’t you really just saying, isn’t this case such an extreme outlier that it’s hard to use it as a basis upon which to make a rule? This is so far outside the mainstream that it doesn’t offer much guidance with respect to rules in the average case? And so that could have cut both ways. But obviously it ultimately cut not only in favor of granting full relief for Mr. Buck, but also for reaffirming the principle that “we sentence people for what they do, not for who they are.” Advertisement ERROL MORRIS: Full relief ––? They overturned the death sentence? CHRISTINA SWARNS: Yes, they did essentially. They said there is a Sixth Amendment violation — ineffective assistance of counsel — and we had crossed the procedural hurdles that we needed to get through. And so now it has to be remanded to the federal courts to, with those rulings, grant the writ and send him back to the state to decide whether they’re going to seek another death sentence or resentence him otherwise. ERROL MORRIS: And what do you think will happen? CHRISTINA SWARNS: We don’t know, but I can say that a death sentence is inappropriate here. Mr. Buck has been on death row since 1997, 1998, and he has had no disciplinary infractions in that time. So to your point about future dangerousness, the prediction could not have been more wrong. We now know without question that Mr. Buck is not likely to be a danger if he is sentenced to life, because he has been in jail for 20-some-odd years, and has had no disciplinary infractions, which is really unusual for anybody to come up with so few disciplinary infractions under any circumstance. It will be a very hard case for the state to prove future dangerousness if it tried to on a resentencing hearing. He has a perfect record. ERROL MORRIS: Would it be a commutation to life if they decided not to retry it? CHRISTINA SWARNS: We’re just not sure. ERROL MORRIS: But the real problem is the Texas statute [coming after Furman v. Georgia] to reinstate the death penalty in Texas. To me the law in itself is an abomination. CHRISTINA SWARNS: I cannot disagree. The business of predicting future dangerousness without becoming corrupted by the various factors that are so tied to human functioning is impossible. It’s an absurd requirement. As a prerequisite for a death sentence, it’s insane. ERROL MORRIS: People are celebrating, which they should, your victory in this case, but the underlying problem remains. CHRISTINA SWARNS: That’s right. I will say that along the way people asked me, were we challenging future dangerousness? And we just didn’t. It wasn’t raised. We just didn’t have the opportunity to do that. ERROL MORRIS: Dr. Walter Quijano, the psychologist, has testified in many, many cases? CHRISTINA SWARNS: He has. He has been interviewed and holds to the position that there is a correlation between race and violence. He cites John Monahan, a researcher, for this view. But Monahan himself said it was inappropriate for Quijano to have used his research in this way. Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. ERROL MORRIS: Well, Dr. Grigson was until the end a very firm believer in his predictions of dangerousness based on sociopathy. I knew him well. Advertisement CHRISTINA SWARNS: I can’t imagine what he was like. ERROL MORRIS: He was avuncular, charming in his own insidious way. I rather liked him. I found his social views deeply pernicious, but he is the one who introduced me to the death penalty in Texas. I went down to interview him in Dallas, and he insisted that I interview people he had put on death row. That’s how I began “The Thin Blue Line.” CHRISTINA SWARNS: That’s amazing. ERROL MORRIS: I found an innocent man who came very close to being executed. [Adams’s execution was scheduled for May 8, 1979, but Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. ordered a stay only three days before he was to be strapped into the lethal-injection gurney. Ultimately, the court overturned his death sentence, but not his conviction.] I uncovered all of these appalling details 30 years ago and then opened up a newspaper recently and read about Buck. It’s as if nothing ever happened. That’s both depressing and infuriating. Mitt Romney, when he was governor of Massachusetts, was told that the death penalty is problematic because it’s fallible. You could execute an innocent person, and given our current state of knowledge, there is really no way to bring them back. Once executed, they stay executed. CHRISTINA SWARNS: And so what was Romney’s reply? ERROL MORRIS: He said: Oh, that’s simple. We’ll just make it infallible. We’ll make it foolproof. You said it’s fallible. We’ll just fix that. CHRISTINA SWARNS: If only. ERROL MORRIS: If only. But this is an example of how it has never been fixed. And here is the $64,000 question. What are your feelings about Clarence Thomas’s decision in this case? Why did he decide as he did? CHRISTINA SWARNS: I have no idea. He is inexplicable. I don’t really understand him. Putting aside the race politics here — and this is a big aside — we were right on the law. We were just four corners right on here. Put aside race, consider just the case. We met the law. I just don’t understand him. He is really offended by the facts of the crime, which is fair, and I get that, because the facts are terrible, but the law is the law — ERROL MORRIS: I am interested in the kinds of casuistry that are involved in legal decisions in general, Supreme Court decisions specifically. I do believe the ends are always justifying the means. If you believe that somehow people should be executed, then you do whatever you need to do in order to make that happen. You think like Romney — we’ll just make it infallible — but that argument clearly misses the point. CHRISTINA SWARNS: Right. It’s absurd. Just think about. I can’t predict what my kid is going to do tomorrow. It’s an insane ask, based on no credible science. Advertisement _____ And so we’re back where we started, except things have gotten worse. We have elected a president who invokes future dangerousness with respect to country of national origin (and also religion). In 1977 it was Dr. Grigson and sociopathy; in 1997, Dr. Quijano and race; and now it is Donald Trump and a list of six countries. Think of it as a very thinly disguised form of racism against Muslims. Christina Swarns sent me several legal briefs submitted to the Supreme Court in support of Buck, among them, a brief from the National Black Law Students Association. “Whether by a judge, a prosecutor or defense counsel, an appeal to a jury based on racial prejudice poisons our system of justice.” And from the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law: “Mr. Buck was entitled to have his dangerousness assessed on an individualized basis based on his personal attributes. Instead he received a death sentence tainted by 400 years of racial stereotyping.” Notwithstanding, the concept of dangerousness is alive and well. It took an egregious error to call it into question in Duane Buck’s case. But it should have been ruled as unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in 1976 (under the Eighth and Fourteenth Amendments) and should be seen as unconstitutional today. Admittedly, there is a difference between a court of law and a presidential order involving immigration. But under any circumstance, should public policy be held hostage to racial and religious discrimination? Errol Morris is a writer and filmmaker. He lives with his wife and French bulldog in Cambridge. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 