Sixty-eight years ago, in Watts v. State of Indiana, the Supreme Court overturned a murder conviction on the ground that the defendant’s confession had been coerced. The case is not much known today because it was overtaken two decades later by Miranda v. Arizona. That landmark decision gave criminal suspects the right to the presence of a lawyer and meant that a six-day interrogation like the one Robert Watts endured on his own would thereafter be considered flatly unconstitutional, without the need for the detailed parsing of the facts that the court undertook. The Watts case nevertheless lives on for a single line in Justice Felix Frankfurter’s opinion for the court. “There comes a point,” Frankfurter wrote, “where this court should not be ignorant as judges of what we know as men.” For weeks this spring, that line rattled around in my mind. I had never read the Watts opinion until the other day, when I finally traced the line to its source. But I’d read several recent judicial opinions for which the line is highly pertinent, even revelatory. The most recent was Chief Judge Roger Gregory’s majority opinion for the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit two weeks ago, upholding a nationwide injunction against President Trump’s Muslim travel ban. The president’s executive order “in text speaks with vague words of national security,” Judge Gregory wrote, “but in context drips with religious intolerance, animus and discrimination.” Drawing on candidate Donald Trump’s professed goal of keeping Muslims out of the country, the judge observed that the order “cannot be divorced from the cohesive narrative linking it to the animus that inspired it.” What we know as men. There’s been a good deal of commentary about the negative impact the president’s intemperate remarks on Twitter about the travel ban early this week might have on the Supreme Court’s response to the administration’s appeal of the Fourth Circuit’s decision. It’s hard not to feel empathy for Jeffrey B. Wall, a respected Washington lawyer now serving as acting solicitor general. In the administration’s Supreme Court petition, filed last Thursday before the latest Twitter storm, he wrote that “the few post-inauguration remarks by the president and aides do not demonstrate an impermissible purpose.” And referring in the petition to Mr. Trump’s statements on the campaign trail, Mr. Wall wrote that courts should regard as irrelevant what a candidate says before actually becoming president: “Taking that oath marks a profound transition from private life to the nation’s highest public office and manifests the singular responsibility and independent authority to protect the welfare of the nation that the Constitution reposes in the president.” It’s the very absence of any such “profound transition” in President Trump’s behavior that increasingly concerns his critics and even some close allies. We’ll see soon enough whether the justices want to plunge into this case: they have set a Monday deadline for the plaintiffs to respond to the administration’s petition. Whatever happens with the travel ban, I think the president’s near-constant expression of disdain for courts and for what they represent is already having an effect on the federal judiciary – and not the one he presumably intends. Unlike a president and those who act in his name, federal judges have life tenure. Unlike a mogul in an industry that thrives on showmanship, on calling a competitor’s bluff before he calls yours, and on putting up buildings taller and gaudier than those of one’s rivals, judges inhabit a world of nuance and constraint where every word carries weight and wiping the slate clean of the past is almost never an option. Where those outside the courts – both those who criticize and those who seek the courts’ help – see power, judges inside the system sense fragility. They are alarmed. Increasingly, they are speaking out. Last week, Judge Stephen Reinhardt of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued an anguished opinion in an immigration case, noting that his court had no legal power to stop a deportation that he considered deeply unjust. The Mexican-born immigrant, Andres Magana Ortiz, came to the United States 28 years ago at age 15 and built a successful business in Hawaii, where he lived with his wife and three children, all United States citizens. Lacking legal status, he had been permitted by immigration officials during the Obama administration to remain in the country while he pursued a path to legalization, but that decision was abruptly overturned this spring and he was ordered deported. Noting that Mr. Magana was “by all accounts a pillar of his community,” Judge Reinhardt said that “the government forces us to participate in ripping apart a family,” adding that “even the ‘good hombres’ are not safe” from the Trump administration’s enforcement policy. His opinion concluded: “Magana Ortiz and his family are in truth not the only victims. Among the others are judges who, forced to participate in such inhumane acts, suffer a loss of dignity and humanity as well. I concur as a judge, but as a citizen I do not.” And this week, a federal district judge in Sioux City, Iowa, Mark W. Bennett, denounced as a “miscarriage of justice” the five-year mandatory minimum sentence he was forced to impose on a first-time drug offender, a grandmother of three, who became addicted to methamphetamine in her 50s and agreed to help her supplier distribute the drug in exchange for a place to sleep. Judge Bennett had tried and failed to persuade federal prosecutors to waive the mandatory minimum in this case. In fairness, Judge Bennett has been a critic of mandatory minimum sentences for years, as have other federal judges. Criticism of federal sentencing policy long predates the Trump administration. In fact, it was just such criticism that was helping to drive a rare bipartisan movement toward criminal justice reform, which Attorney General Jeff Sessions stopped cold with his order to federal prosecutors last month to charge the “most serious, readily provable offense” in every case, regardless of the circumstances. The attorney general’s enablers on Capitol Hill have yet to extract from him an explanation for this disastrous policy turn, which in any event has been submerged by more obviously earthshaking developments in the intervening weeks. But there’s no doubt that judges are noticing. Among the president’s tweets this week, those denouncing his own travel ban as “watered down” and “politically correct,” and the courts as “political” and “slow,” have received the most attention. (The tweets call it a travel ban, while the administration’s Supreme Court petition calls it an “entry suspension.”) But of all of the tweets, the one that grabbed me was one he issued after the London Bridge terrorist attack: “We need to be smart, vigilant and tough. We need the courts to give us back our rights.” Who does President Trump mean by “us”? And what rights have the courts taken away? I’m wondering. And, I suspect, so are the judges. What we know as men. Women, too.