Here’s the latest sign of how far we’ve passed through the looking glass since Donald Trump moved into the White House: James Comey, the former director of the F.B.I., told the Senate Intelligence Committee on Thursday that he actually would be happy if the president had been covertly recording their conversations on the phone, in the Oval Office, at dinner and in Trump Tower. When he told his top aides that the president had asked him to drop the investigation into National Security Adviser Michael Flynn’s lying about his contacts with Russian officials, the other F.B.I. officials were “as shocked and troubled by it as I was,” Comey testified on Thursday. At that moment, Comey said, he was glad that he’d continued writing memos after every conversation he had with Trump, a practice he started after their first meeting in Trump Tower before the inauguration. “I was honestly concerned that he might lie about the nature of our meeting,” he told the Senate. But Comey said he and his aides knew that there was no way to corroborate his account of Trump’s request to drop the Flynn case because he and the president were alone together: It would be Comey’s word against Trump’s. “My view of that changed when the prospect of tapes was raised,” Comey said, referring to a tweet in which Mr. Trump seemed to threaten Comey with recordings that would contradict his version of events. “Lordy, I hope there are tapes,” Comey said at another point in his testimony. Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, asked Comey why he didn’t tell the president that he was acting inappropriately when he cleared the Oval Office to ambush him about the Flynn probe. Comey, who was stone-faced at almost every other moment in the hearing, permitted himself a tiny smile. “I was a bit stunned and didn’t have the presence of mind,” he said. “I don’t want to make it sound like I’m Captain Courageous,” Comey said, adding that all he could think about what was “be careful of what you say.” Twice during the opening minutes of today’s surreal Senate hearing, Americans heard the words “plain and simple” — the top Democrat on the committee said it was plain and simple that Russia “attacked us right here at home” by hacking the 2016 election. And Comey said it was plain and simple that Trump had told “lies” about his reasons for firing the F.B.I. director. Here’s something else that’s plain and simple. It’s important to get to the bottom of Russia’s nefarious attacks on the American political system, and whether the Trump organization colluded in that scheme. After all, the Kremlin has already gotten from Trump something it’s wanted since the North Atlantic Treaty was signed on April 4, 1949 — Trump has called into question the United States commitment to the mutual-defense clause of that pact, not mentioning it in a recent speech before NATO leaders. But it’s just as important, and perhaps more urgent, to get to the bottom of the president’s attempts to block the investigation into his team’s ties to Russia. A few of the Republicans on the committee, like Senator Roy Blunt of Missouri, loyally tried to make Comey look bad, especially when Comey admitted that he gave his memo about the Oval Office meeting to a friend so he could leak it to the press. But it didn’t work. Others tried to make it seem as though Trump had not technically obstructed justice, and made much of the notion that he never said something like “I’m ordering you to fake the results of the investigation.” That didn’t work either. There is no hiding the plain and simple fact that Trump abused his power. His primary goal was not, I believe, to protect Michael Flynn, but to protect a person far more important to Trump: himself. The abiding image from this hearing will be the spectacle of the nation’s top law enforcement officer comparing the president’s attempts to interfere with the F.B.I. investigations to Henry II’s famous plea. “It kind of rings in my ears as, ‘Will no one rid me of this meddlesome priest,’ ” he said. Henry was referring to Thomas Becket, the archbishop of Canterbury, whom the king’s followers later killed. Comey clearly knows his history. It’s too bad, for all of us, that Trump never bothered to learn it.