This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Young people in the United States and Britain have something in common. They’re both living with a political reality that they don’t like. In the United States, voters under 30 preferred Hillary Clinton to Donald Trump by a landslide margin. In Britain, the under-30 vote overwhelmingly rejected Brexit and wanted to remain in Europe. But now it looks like young Brits, at least, may be starting to take their revenge. In a shocking result, Britain’s Conservative Party, led by Theresa May, failed to win a majority last night. It remains the largest party, yet its surprisingly poor showing leaves the country’s political situation unclear. May’s own future as the Conservative leader is in doubt, as are Brexit negotiations. Early signs suggest that a surge in the turnout of younger voters — who backed Labour and its proudly leftist leader, Jeremy Corbyn — explains at least part of the surprise. If so, the potential lessons for the Democratic Party will be large. Can Democrats also translate anger among younger Americans (over Trump, rather than Brexit) into higher turnout? It would be a big deal if so, because turnout among millenials was only 49 percent last year, compared with 69 percent for baby boomers. Perhaps the most obvious question is whether the Democrats should adopt the same unabashed populism — the real kind, not the Trump kind — that Corbyn did. For a taste of it, you can watch this brief campaign commercial. My instinct is that a bolder message from Democrats on the stagnation of middle-class living standards would make sense. It’s important not to exaggerate the British result. The Conservatives still won more seats than Labour. Corbyn is a complicated politician, and Democrats should avoid parts of his approach. Yet last night was clearly a good night for him and the British left, and a bad one for the British right. The coming diagnosis of the surprise bears watching for the United States too. I hope you’ll pardon a longer newsletter than usual today, given the torrent of news. I want to turn to James Comey’s testimony now: Much of the reaction to it has focused on the question of whether President Trump committed obstruction of justice. That’s a mistake. President Trump doesn’t need to have committed obstruction to have done something very wrong. And if you believe Comey’s testimony, Trump did indeed do something very wrong. On multiple occasions, he tried to influence an investigation into his campaign, and he demanded “loyalty” from Comey, rather than truth and justice. I understand why people are focusing on the technical legal issues. They’re ultimately important as well. But the primary ways that a president is held accountable for his behavior are political, not legal. His poll ratings can fall, which leads his own allies to abandon him. His party can lose seats, which leaves the party with less power. Ultimately, the president himself can lose re-election if he is in his first term. Even impeachment is more of a political process than a legal one, constitutional scholars say. “There’s no *substantive* reason to argue about things like the legal standards of obstruction of justice or similar minutiae,” the political scientist Matt Glassman tweeted. The real question, he explained, is: “Did POTUS behave improperly, abuse his power, or attempt to political manipulate the system to hide his or others wrongdoings?” Unless Comey is shown to be unreliable — and there is every reason to trust him over Trump — the answer is yes. The Comey hearing damaged Trump’s already troubled political standing. Here are a few pieces on Comey that I found illuminating: — “I know Trump defenders will continue trying to wave it all away — it’s already becoming clear how they want to do so — but Comey keeps making it harder for them,” Emily Bazelon of The Times wrote, in an exchange with Elizabeth Goitein. — “Overall, one gets the impression that the president views himself less as the president of a constitutional republic and more as the dictatorial CEO of a private company,” David French of National Review wrote. — Glassman also argued that many observers are missing the importance of Republicans’ tepid support for Trump. “It’s true his party hasn’t thrown him overboard. But that’s cold comfort in a job that needs *positive* help, not just minimal tolerance,” Glassman wrote. “Bipartisan consensus in the Senate that the word of POTUS isn’t worth anything. That’s big well beyond scandal.” — Nate Silver has noted that Trump’s approval ratings have continued to fall lately. — Dan Epps, a law professor at Washington University, explained how Trump’s use of “hope” could convey a threat. Adam Liptak and Victoria Kwan found cases in which federal courts connected a statement of “hope” to obstruction of justice. — FiveThirtyEight analyzed the subjects Comey wouldn’t discuss, which Susan Glasser and Carol Leonnig note are clues to where the investigation may go from here. One possibility involves Jeff Sessions, the attorney general. The full Opinion report from The Times follows, including David Brooks, Roger Cohen, Paul Krugman, Sara Lipton, Andy Rosenthal and the Editorial Board on Comey day. I particularly recommend Nicole Serratore on the link between the testimony and sexual harassment.