I once missed a job interview in Watts because the hour and a half I allotted for travel across Los Angeles wasn’t enough for the five buses I needed to get there. After two and a half hours, I turned around, defeated. That was years ago, but President Trump’s infrastructure rollout this week brought the memory back to me. When politicians talk about infrastructure, people generally think of roads and bridges. But these are just a part of the nation’s infrastructure, and not necessarily the most important part for millions of poor and working-class Americans who have limited access to public transportation, broadband and even clean water. If we’re going to talk about how infrastructure can get America back to work, Mr. Trump needs to think beyond concrete and steel spans. My own frustration that day in Los Angeles pales in comparison to what many people face. Sixty percent of public transit users are people of color who rely on broken or inefficient systems. Only 62 percent of rural Americans have access to high-speed internet. Imagine what that means to a high school student applying to college or a small-business owner trying to connect with customers. From Flint, Mich., to the Navajo reservation in the Southwest, more than 1.3 million Americans don’t have running water at home, and many don’t have access to clean water at all. Without investment in these critical systems, millions of families are barred from a shot at the American dream — and our economy loses valuable talent from the work force. While the nation’s unemployment rate is low, at 4.3 percent, joblessness remains a challenge for many, especially people of color and those living in isolated neighborhoods. Most infrastructure jobs do not require college degrees and they pay above-average wages, offering a path to economic mobility. What should President Trump do about these issues? Successful models exist. In Minneapolis and St. Paul, activists worked with elected officials to create a light-rail line that connects thousands of people in low-income neighborhoods and communities of color to new jobs. The line is expected to spur up to $6.8 billion in private and public developments over 20 years. Or take the crisis that is our nation’s crumbling water systems. Reports estimate that the country must invest $300 billion in wastewater infrastructure and $335 billion in drinking water infrastructure over the next 20 years just to meet health and safety standards. It’s a daunting challenge, but Mr. Trump can look to Philadelphia for inspiration. In 2011, the city adopted a $2.4 billion, 25-year plan to reduce storm-water runoff and sewage overflows via green infrastructure. More than 440 projects such as rain gardens, porous paving and green roofs now keep 1.5 billion gallons of polluted water out of the city’s rivers and streams every year while creating jobs for young people facing barriers to employment and beautifying vacant lots. Increasing broadband access would help people throughout the country, especially in rural communities. We’re leaving those communities behind by refusing to adequately invest in the modern-day infrastructure they need. On the campaign trail, the president promised to fix roads, bridges and airports. His proposals so far have focused on private investment and development to spur new projects. But private investment works only where there is quick money to be made; it does nothing for those in underserved and low-income areas. Instead of making the rich richer and well-off areas better off, a smart infrastructure investment plan would focus on vulnerable communities, making strategic improvements to benefit a greater number of people. I call this the “curb-cut effect,” inspired by the ramp-like dips on sidewalk corners. In the 1970s disability rights activists fought for curb cuts because it was nearly impossible to cross the street in a wheelchair without them. Although curbs were cut all across the country to make travel easier and opportunity more accessible for people with disabilities, the investment turned out to benefit lots of people: parents wheeling strollers, workers pushing heavy carts, travelers rolling suitcases, even runners and cyclists. Because of curb cuts, nine in 10 adults cross at intersections instead of mid-block, a boon for pedestrian safety. It’s a marvelous illustration of how an investment aimed at helping one vulnerable community has made our entire society better. Like curb cuts, expanded broadband, clean water systems, improved public transportation — and yes, better roads and bridges — that lift up the most vulnerable among us actually lift us all up. These investments can create a nimbler work force, better educated society and healthier families. We cannot let the Trump administration champion a shortsighted infrastructure plan that primarily serves the wealthy. Democratic leaders must block any legislation that does not prioritize those most in need. Anything short of a forward-looking, equitable infrastructure plan would be a road to nowhere.