So then there are tapes? No, no, there aren’t. Shocker of shockers: Donald Trump was utterly confusing at his news conference on Friday afternoon. But I don’t think he was confused. Ever the entertainer, he knows the power of teases, of misdirection, of suspense. And he decided — perhaps for his own amusement, perhaps to pull our attention away from the legalities of his interactions with James Comey — to keep people guessing about whether he’d recorded any of those conversations, as he vaguely suggested he had last month. He wore an expression of mischief on his face. He looked pleased. He clarified nothing. “I’ll tell you about that maybe sometime in the very near future,” he said when answering the initial question he received. These were his first public comments since Comey’s raptly watched, riveting testimony on Thursday morning. “Maybe.” “Future.” Stay tuned, Americans. There are many reveals ahead in the exciting episodes to come. Minutes later in the news conference, which was frustratingly brief, he rephrased the “very near future” as “a fairly short period of time.” So much clearer now! Then this: “Oh, you’re going to be very disappointed when you hear the answer — don’t worry.” Disappointed how? And we don’t want to be disappointed, so disappointment is a cause for worry. My head is bloody from the head scratching this presidency prompts. Trump wasn’t fuzzy at all, though, about some of the key points in Comey’s testimony, calling them lies. He said that he hadn’t asked Comey for a pledge of loyalty and hadn’t tried to wave him away from an investigation of Michael Flynn. “Some of the things he said just weren’t true,” the president insisted, adding that he would gladly testify to that under oath. And so we’re stuck where we were: he said/he said. Except with a twist. Usually that formulation presumes actors of potentially equal credibility. Usually it flags the impossibility of knowing — truly knowing — whom to believe. But there’s no such equilibrium here. Each actor couldn’t be more different from the other. Comey took dispassionate notes. Trump tweeted. Trump answered questions about the whole affair cryptically, with a slight air of exasperation and persecution. Comey answered them with such painstaking earnestness and modesty that it was the oratorical equivalent of a student handing a teacher a gleamingly polished apple. He issued apologies about his own behavior, even though he wasn’t the accused. If I were stronger. If I were braver. If I were better. Trump on Friday digressed from the charge that he obstructed justice to crow about his electoral college victory. Yet again. I don’t need tapes to tell me which of these men warrants the benefit of the doubt. I have these trusty appendages called ears.