I was 12 the first time I felt the crippling cramps. I hadn’t yet gotten my period and was happily running around a state fair with my best friend, mouth full of cotton candy, when it hit me: a steady drum of pain beneath my pubic bone, a throbbing in my back that made its way down both my legs. I fell to the muddy ground. Suddenly the Ferris wheel was a nightmare, the carnival games distorted and unpleasant. I blacked out. At the E.R. they told me it could’ve been a reaction to bad chicken (sure) and sent me home with Pepto-Bismol. Thus began a 15-year routine of pain, questions and nonanswers that would continue until I was found to have endometriosis at age 27. (This delay is not unusual, and the average woman suffers for years before she is given a diagnosis.) My only savior during much of that time? Oral contraception. Birth control pills are many women’s method of choice for preventing unintended pregnancy and should be covered by all insurance policies for that reason alone. But for millions of women living with endometriosis, polycystic ovarian syndrome, cystic acne, migraines, uterine abnormalities and a history of ectopic pregnancies, birth control can be a crucial, even lifesaving, medical treatment. While there is no cure for endometriosis, hormonal contraception can control pain and bleeding by stopping or significantly shortening the length of a woman’s period. It helps keep women with the disease happy, healthy and able to work. Considering how little money the government puts into endometriosis research (last year, the National Institutes of Health allocated around $10 million of its $32 billion budget to it), it’s clear that our country already has a dangerous disregard for women with this common condition. But imagine if this disease that affects about one in 10 women of reproductive age were allowed to progress unhindered. Imagine losing these women’s essential contributions to our world because of a treatable illness. Well, if the Trump administration follows through on its plan to roll back the requirement that insurers cover birth control (revealed in leaked government documents last week), you won’t have to imagine it. The documents outline a chilling proposal that would allow any employer to deny coverage of birth control at any time and for any reason. Women who rely on oral contraception would suddenly be living in a very different reality, one in which some could become disabled as their disease progressed. For women with financial means, the rollback would be inconvenient and unfair, as other necessary medications remain covered. But for women living near or below the poverty line, it would be disastrous, jeopardizing their ability to work and provide for their families. Birth control pills can cost up to $50 a month without insurance, and in a 2010 survey, a third of female voters said they’d had trouble paying for them at some point. Low-income women who may not have access to expensive surgeries or other more advanced endometriosis treatments will be hit the hardest because they are the most reliant on oral contraceptives to manage their condition. More women in this country are prescribed oral contraception for medical reasons than for pregnancy prevention. If the Trump administration and Republicans in Congress succeed in stripping funding from Planned Parenthood and giving employers carte blanche to deny women necessary medication under murky notions of moral disdain, all paths to health and wellness will disappear for a huge swath of Americans. Between 1998 and last week, I’ve been to the emergency room over 50 times with endometriosis-related pain (this makes for some very cozy relationships with fun nurses, but it’s not a particularly sustainable or amusing life plan). Despite my access to remarkable doctors, oral contraceptives and even alternative treatments, my disease progressed to the point that I needed surgery, from which it has taken several months to heal. I had to use a walker after the operation. Even with my attempts to add bling to the item, it was a shocking reminder of what this illness can do (and of the fact that denying birth control isn’t just misogynistic but also deeply biased against people who are disabled by the disease). And yet I am one of the lucky ones. I can continue to do my job as a writer and a director, work directly with doctors to ensure my disease is controlled, and feel the support of millions when I am let down by my own body. But many are not so fortunate. And it is not only celebrities with access to the voice of the news media who deserve the chance to be heard on this essential issue. I encourage every reader to reach out to their members of Congress and voice their opposition to this rollback, as well as to the attacks on Planned Parenthood. At a time when we have no guarantee of health care or protection from our administration, every woman you love, sick or well, is depending on you. Please do not let us down.