When President Trump nominated Christopher Wray on Wednesday to lead the F.B.I., it appeared that Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey had finally made an imprint on an administration he was supposed to have helped shape all along. The governor had publicly endorsed Mr. Wray for the job on June 1 and let it be known on the day of the nomination that he was his guy. “When I was at the absolute lowest point of my professional life, he’s who I called,” Mr. Christie said, referring to when the Bridgegate scandal broke in January 2014. Mr. Wray, a lawyer with King & Spalding and a former federal prosecutor, served as the governor’s counsel during Bridgegate and helped him avoid legal consequences, including testifying in court. But he could not protect the governor from the political ramifications of the scandal, which revealed a cutthroat reward-and-punish style of politics that played a part in torpedoing Mr. Christie’s presidential hopes. Even so, Mr. Trump shortlisted Mr. Christie as a possible running mate and for a time kept him on as the chairman of his transition team, where he was entrusted to fill high-level positions in the new administration. Though the governor ended up being sidelined from that job, the blood-sport political culture that spawned Bridgegate has managed to worm its way into the Trump administration. Several Bridgegate figures are now in the Trump inner circle — no surprise, considering that Mr. Trump and Mr. Christie have been friends since they first dined together in the early 2000s. At the time, Mr. Christie was a federal prosecutor and Mr. Trump was running a highly regulated casino business. They share a New York-New Jersey style of transactional what-have-you-done-for-me-lately politics, where policy seems secondary, ethics rules are meant to be bent, apologies are rare, secrecy is sacrosanct and lawyers are plentiful. Bridgegate culture was exemplified most recently by the firing of James Comey from the F.B.I.: If you’re not giving us absolute loyalty, you’re dead to us. One of the president’s closest advisers, his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, had professed admiration for Bridgegate, the week of orchestrated traffic chaos in Fort Lee, N.J., in September 2013, meant to punish the town’s mayor for not endorsing Mr. Christie for re-election. “For what it’s worth, I thought the move you pulled was kind of badass,” Mr. Kushner wrote in an email to David Wildstein, the Port Authority official and Bridgegate mastermind, who now faces up to 27 months in prison. Mr. Kushner was writing to him soon after Mr. Wildstein had resigned from the Port Authority in the mushrooming scandal. Mr. Kushner was consoling Mr. Wildstein, his former executive vice president at the Kushner-owned Observer Media Group, which he had left to take a political job at the Port Authority. (As it turned out, Mr. Kushner himself seems adept at the politics of revenge. He helped force the governor out of the transition job; Mr. Christie had sent Mr. Kushner’s father to prison while he was the United States attorney in New Jersey.) Mr. Trump had nothing to do with Bridgegate. And yet in later choosing Mr. Christie as his transition chairman, Mr. Trump empowered the governor to bring on similar people. After all, for his own team, the governor had hired Mr. Wildstein, who spied on enemies at the Port Authority. Mr. Christie’s administration also maintained naughty and nice lists of local mayors. Bridgegate culture is about winning, and giving second and third chances only to the most powerful, while underlings lose their jobs, or worse. One of those pushed aside was the governor’s former deputy chief of staff, Bridget Anne Kelly, who wrote the infamous “time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee” email that set the scheme in motion. Federal prosecutors said at trial that she neither conceived the plot nor had the sole authority to sign off on it. Near penniless, she faces 18 months in federal prison. One of the survivors was Ms. Kelly’s former boss, Bill Stepien, who managed Mr. Christie’s two successful campaigns for governor before Mr. Christie fired him as Bridgegate erupted. He is now the White House political director. Trial testimony showed that Mr. Stepien knew about the lane closings before they took place and even asked one conspirator about “the cover” for the havoc. One of Mr. Stepien’s aides was Matt Mowers, whose failure to secure a Christie endorsement from the Fort Lee mayor prompted the retaliation. Mr. Mowers has a top position at the State Department now, working outside Secretary of State Rex Tillerson’s office but answering to the White House. Mr. Mowers and Mr. Stepien have denied wrongdoing and neither was charged in Bridgegate — and with Mr. Wray as his lawyer, neither was the governor, who has also said he did nothing wrong. Among other things, Mr. Wray helped to keep Mr. Christie’s personal cellphone out of the hands of prosecutors. The cellphone might have explained 12 missing text messages that, WNYC found, were exchanged between Mr. Christie and a top aide during a legislative hearing that undercut the official explanation of what led to the Fort Lee traffic chaos. The governor and his aide said the texts were of no consequence, but the contents have never been disclosed. The subsequent trial last fall proved particularly damning nonetheless: Testimony revealed Mr. Christie was made aware of key details of the plot while it was being carried out. Mr. Christie, whose term ends in January, remains one of Mr. Trump’s most loyal supporters and apologists. After Mr. Comey’s testimony was released last week, Mr. Christie dismissed on MSNBC any loyalty demands the president may have made to the F.B.I. director as mere “normal New York City conversation.” The implication was that Mr. Comey, a North Jersey native who was a United States attorney in New York for two years, didn’t understand the vernacular. Perhaps he would have better understood normal New Jersey conversation, like “Time for some traffic problems in Fort Lee.”