When I learned that ABC had suspended production on this summer’s season of “Bachelor in Paradise” — the cheesy spinoff of the “Bachelor” franchise, which sends spurned contenders to a notably un-air-conditioned resort in Mexico and offers them another shot at love — I was shocked. My surprise was not that production-halting misconduct took place, but that it has taken this long for something this bad to occur. As the reality genre has flourished, viewers’ appetites have increased. We like to watch. We always want more drama, more sex, more fights, more tears — and producers have been happy to provide it. So what, exactly, went on in Mexico that was bad enough to warrant the shutdown of an entire production? The statement from Warner Bros., the studio responsible for the show, was predictably opaque. “We have become aware of allegations of misconduct on the set,” it read. “We have suspended production and we are conducting a thorough investigation of these allegations.” The show’s superfans were more forthcoming. Steve Carbone, who blogs as Reality Steve and is basically the Walter Cronkite of the “Bachelor” universe, tweeted  that from what he had been told, the show was canceled: “They’re done. Everyone’s being sent home.” By Tuesday, the narrative had taken on horror-story elements, which are especially hard to hear for longtime fans of the “Bachelor” franchise — fans like me — who consumed each episode like candy, treating the show like a fantasy world full of fictional characters to whom nothing really bad could ever happen. While none of the participants are speaking on the record about the incident, it seems clear that much alcohol was consumed. No surprise there. Anyone who has glanced at the show knows that the liquor flows pretty much all day long, a nonstop river of champagne, beer and vodka, guaranteed to loosen tongues and bikini tops, which makes for great TV. Then there is a serious allegation of sexual misconduct — and the claim that it took place under the eye of the producers. Now viewers have to sit with our complicity. This isn’t just about the hot young things looking for love or fame or a chance to earn a few thousand dollars hawking diet teas on Instagram. It’s about the viewers, who demand that our favorites, or the villains we love to hate, walk the knife’s edge between what’s contemptible and what’s actually a crime, trusting that producers will keep them from falling. There’s an implicit bargain that gets made at the start of every reality show’s season. We want our stars to suffer, and we’ll watch them drop 30 pounds while subsisting on a mostly rice diet on “Survivor.” We do not, however, want to watch them fall into the campfire and sustain second-degree burns. We want steamy hookups, drunken antics and tearful regret. We do not want to be faced with a woman saying she was too intoxicated to consent to sexual activities. This isn’t the first time that reality TV producers chose to film questionable on-camera behavior instead of stopping it. In 1999, on MTV’s “The Real World,” a cast member got extremely drunk and then got behind the wheel. Even though she was visibly intoxicated, staggering and slurring her words, producers elected to confront her the following morning instead of taking the keys. That incident prompted discussion of what happens when a producer’s duty to catch salacious footage bumps up against her obligations as a human being. MTV handled it by airing footage of a producer telling the cast member on camera that she needed to get help or risk being fired. But for every “Big Brother” that boots a male contestant for holding a knife to a female castmate’s throat, there’s a show like “Who Wants to Marry a Multimillionaire,” which cast a man with a history of domestic abuse as its star. However belatedly, ABC and Warner Bros. have put themselves on the right side of the line. Hookups, yes; allegations of sexual misconduct, no. Weepy I-wish-I-hadn’t-done-that-with-him, fine; weepy how-could-they-let-him-do-that-to-me, not fine. We like to watch, but we don’t like watching that. Which brings us, as all things must, to the reality TV star in chief. Why is the possibility that someone took advantage of a female cast member bad enough to shut down a show’s production while President Donald “when you’re a star they let you do it” Trump sits in the White House? My conclusion is that it’s the difference between seeing and hearing. After all, N.F.L. officials reacted one way when they heard allegations that a player had a physical altercation with a woman. They had a different reaction when they, and the world, saw video of Ray Rice punching his fiancée in an elevator. Likewise, ABC knows that it would be one thing to hear a “Paradise” contestant say, “I didn’t want this,” about something that happened off-camera. It would be something very different for viewers to see footage of a contestant being violated in prime time. So maybe there’s a difference between hearing a reality TV star boast that his fame lets him get away with grabbing women — and hearing from women who say that they were, indeed, grabbed — and seeing him actually try. In which case, I hope that there could be a dose of reality-show karma heading the president’s way, and I will echo James Comey: Lordy, I hope there are tapes.