WASHINGTON — I first came to America 40 years ago. It was the summer of 1977, and I was 20 years old. Jimmy Carter had moved into the White House a few months earlier. I and five friends rented a motor home in Bethlehem, Pa., and drove manically to Santa Barbara, Calif., and back, following the imperious orders of Fleetwood Mac — “Don’t Stop,” the ubiquitous hit of that summer. The day Elvis Presley died in Memphis — Aug. 16, 1977 — we were driving across the South, not too far away. But our English was tentative, and we missed the news. Since then my English has gotten better, and I’ve revisited the United States many times. I’ve come as a tourist, a resident, a husband, a dad and a son — in 1987, my parents ordered me to drive them around Arizona for two weeks. I’ve come as a journalist, a teacher, a lecturer and a writer (I wrote a book about life in America in the carefree mid-1990s). I came for conferences and long train journeys — from Portland, Me., to Portland, Ore.; from Washington, D.C., to Washington State. I’ve come for presidential elections, book tours, sports events and interviews. I remember Madonna, in Los Angeles, who didn’t like me; and Bruce Springsteen, in Buffalo, who during the sound check asked the E Street Band to play “Lost in the Flood” “for our Italian guest.” This time, it was for an annual conference designed to foster dialogue between Europe and North America. It included more than 100 political leaders and experts from industry, finance, academia and the media, from 30-odd countries. We spent three great days together. One could tell the Americans and the Europeans at first glance — the hosts in their shirts and light summer dresses, and the guests wearing sweaters and windbreakers against the ferocious air-conditioning. The main conference room was huge. Not big enough, though. There was a blond elephant inside, and he didn’t go away. His name was Donald Trump. Forty years is a long time. Coming often to the United States, I thought I’d experienced every national mood. I was wrong. I have never seen Americans so self-absorbed. It’s a strange time to be a European in America. Everyone was nice, and some trans-Atlantic topics were on the agenda. But the Americans’ minds were elsewhere — a few miles to the east, around the White House. They are still trying to come to terms with their new president — friends and foes, for different reasons. The debate on the future of the European Union, on the third day of our conference, created as much excitement as a math class on a Friday afternoon. Whatever you think of Mr. Trump, he’s an exceptional man, hard to pin down. He’s using his November windfall to do whatever comes to his mind. He’s utterly unpredictable. His supporters enjoy this; his opponents don’t. But everyone is mesmerized. I had thought, perhaps naïvely, that by now the country would have settled down, or at least its most plugged-in citizens. Wrong — the people I met were every bit at sea as they were seven months ago. We met as President Trump announced he would quit the Paris accord on climate change, and days after he failed to express support for NATO’s Article 5, the commitment to consider an attack on one as an attack on all. Some voters in Arkansas may not care, but most of us at the conference did. I tried to relay what Mr. Trump’s rhetoric sounds like to a European. Americans may debate the appropriateness of the phrase “America First,” with its quasi-fascist echoes, but Europeans care less about word choice than about the intent behind it. If America is first, will Europe be in second or third place? Or even farther down the list? A new American exceptionalism? More likely, a recurrent American delusion: to be self-sufficient. Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, and Gary Cohn, director of the National Economic Council, wrote in The Wall Street Journal that “the world is not a ‘global community’ but an arena where nations, nongovernmental actors and businesses engage and compete for advantage.” Really? How do you think America and Europe — together — defeated Nazism and Communism? How they developed and created wealth for their citizens? Helping each other or “competing for advantage in an arena”? Maybe this is just rhetoric, and maybe Europeans’ response is more emotional than rational. But when you’ve known someone for 40 years — it could be a partner, a friend or a friendly nation — feelings are important. When I think about those feelings, that trans-Atlantic ideal of unity, I think back to the months between Sept. 11 and the ill-fated invasion of Iraq. The NATO nations went into Afghanistan together, stood together against a challenge to our collective security and, more important, values. That feeling faded, but I have always hoped it would return in the face of a challenge: When you share so much — history and democracy, freedom and the rule of law — and the world is messy, it’s important to stick together. Traveling in the United States today, I worry that feeling is gone. But then I remember — I’ve been coming here a long time, for a good reason. The final evening I was talking with a few of my new American friends. “The United States of America, from time to time, forgets good old Europe and falls in love with new parts of the world,” I said. “It was Japan in the 1980s, Russia in the 1990s, China in 2000s. Go ahead, have your affairs! But don’t forget — you’re married to us.”