About a week ago, CNN pulled the plug on its show “Believer,” hosted by the religion scholar Reza Aslan. Network executives made the decision after Mr. Aslan, angered by what he deemed Donald Trump’s callous response to the terrorist attack at London Bridge, wrote on Twitter that President Trump was “not just an embarrassment to America” but also “an embarrassment to humankind.” (There was an expletive, too.) While people can debate the merits of CNN’s move, Mr. Aslan’s opinion of the president as an embarrassment is widely shared. Polling by the McClatchy news organization and Marist College shows that while 30 percent of Americans are “proud” to have Mr. Trump as their president, 60 percent say they’re “embarrassed” by him. Embarrassment is obviously an uncomfortable sensation — and embarrassment at the blundering and misbehavior of the leader of the free world is no exception. But research by sociologists and psychologists suggests embarrassment is, socially speaking, a valuable emotion. For opponents of President Trump, might it prove politically valuable, too? The sociologist Erving Goffman gave a classic analysis of embarrassment in 1956. He started by scrutinizing the sort of personal mortification all of us experience from time to time. The causes of embarrassment might appear idiosyncratic. For one person, it’s embarrassing to trip while walking down the street; for another, tripping isn’t embarrassing, but having your child reveal private information about your home life at a dinner party is. Mr. Goffman discerned a common core beneath all the variation. Embarrassment, he argued, comes about when who we’re claiming to be in a social interaction suddenly doesn’t seem to square with the facts. If you’re the kind of person who strides confidently down the street, you’re making an implicit claim to being coordinated and self-assured; tripping suggests you’re no such thing. Likewise, you may present yourselves to friends and acquaintances as a paragon of responsibility; your child’s spilling the beans on what you’re really like at home is a rebuke to this image. Embarrassment is the fear that others are judging us incompetent performers of our social roles. Among the emotion’s telltale signs, Mr. Goffman noted — the way you can tell you’re dealing with someone in the thrall of embarrassment — are “blushing, fumbling, stuttering, an unusually low- or high-pitched voice,” “sweating” and “blinking.” So disruptive are these displays to the normal flow of social interaction that those who witness firsthand someone else’s embarrassment often work quickly to repair the situation, offering reassurance to the embarrassed party. Yet despite the discomfort, according to Mr. Goffman, we should not wish embarrassment away. The embarrassed individual is a functioning member of society, attuned enough to the dynamics of interpersonal interaction that his or her body responds reflexively to a perceived breach. Embarrassment is a signal that family, school and peer groups — the main institutions that socialize us — are doing their job. More up-to-date research finds support for those insights. In a 2012 paper, the psychologists Matthew Feinberg and Dacher Keltner and the sociologist Robb Willer extended Mr. Goffman’s ideas in an evolutionary direction. In their view, embarrassment is in essence a “nonverbal apology” for having screwed up a social interaction. As such, it indicates to other members of a social group that the person who’s embarrassed is sensitive to norms and committed to group well-being. Embarrassment thus belongs to a suite of “prosocial” emotions, including empathy, shame and guilt, that evolved presumably because humans vested with them were better at maintaining the group relations necessary for species survival. In experiments, Professors Feinberg, Keltner and Willer discovered that people with a prosocial orientation — for example, those who are altruistic — tend to get more embarrassed. They also found that observers regard embarrassed individuals as committed to the good of the group and as more trustworthy. How does all this relate to the embarrassment that 60 percent of Americans feel — not about themselves but about President Trump? The psychologists Sören Krach and Frieder Paulus have studied vicarious embarrassment, which is when we’re embarrassed for someone else, even if that person gives no indication of being embarrassed. They showed research subjects drawings of people in embarrassing scenarios — bending down and splitting their pants, for instance. They discovered that viewing these images thrust people into an emotional state that had some of the features of personal embarrassment. Using brain-imaging devices, however, they also discovered that among the regions of people’s brains that “lit up” in these cases were those known to be centers for empathic perceptions of pain. It’s a safe bet that few of the Americans embarrassed by President Trump are embarrassed for him, exactly, though it may be hard not to experience a twinge of vicarious embarrassment when watching video clips of him stammering incoherently in response to a reporter’s question or shoving aside the prime minister of Montenegro. The guy clearly hasn’t figured out how to act presidential, and the disjuncture between his behavior and the social role he has taken on is painful to see, even if we would disclaim empathy for him. The more interesting suggestion, though, is that Americans embarrassed by President Trump are experiencing vicarious embarrassment not for him but for the country. They’re embarrassed that, with Mr. Trump as president, the country’s claims to virtue, leadership and moral standing ring hollow. If Mike Pence were president, liberals would oppose his policies but wouldn’t be quite so embarrassed. Embarrassment of the sort that’s bubbling up today is tied to national pride and patriotism, which the right often accuses the left of lacking and which cosmopolitan liberals sometimes fail to notice in themselves. Time will tell whether embarrassment over Mr. Trump proves a galvanizing force for political change. Either way, in these rancorous times, embarrassment is a healthier, more civic-minded emotional basis for dissent than hatred.