GUESS which state has the highest interest in impeaching President Trump. It’s Montana. Montana? Montana has made the most Google searches with the words “impeach” and “Trump.” These searches include “how to impeach Trump” and “impeach Trump petition.” Alaska and Idaho are also in the top 10. How can Montana, Alaska and Idaho be among the leaders in showing interest about impeaching a Republican president? Does this mean that the impeachment movement has quietly gone mainstream, capturing the interest of die-hard Republicans living in the heart of conservative America? Nope. To understand why impeachment interest is so high in Montana and similar states, we have to broaden our understanding of the political geography of the United States. We usually divide American states politically into two groups, and since Montana, Alaska and Idaho consistently vote for Republican presidents, we categorize them as red states. But there is another interesting political division: states with higher concentrations of liberal activists and states with lower concentrations. The liberal activism divide does not neatly match up with the red-blue divide. Consider this measure of left-wing strength. Where was the highest percentage of support for Jill Stein, the Green Party presidential candidate in 2016? Alaska and Montana rank in the top 10, beating New York and New Jersey. Alaska and Montana also rank in the top 10 for visits to Daily Kos, a website popular among progressives. In fact, the current map of Google searches for impeaching President Trump almost perfectly matches the map of visits to Daily Kos. On a range of measures, red states in the mountain region tend to have more liberal activists, relatively speaking, than blue states in the mid-Atlantic or the Midwest. Montana has a small percentage of Democrats (although one of them is the governor and another a senator) but a large percentage of liberal activists. Illinois has a large percentage of Democrats but a small percentage of liberal activists. The comparatively high interest in impeachment in Western red states is not a sign of wide interest in impeachment. It is a sign of its narrow appeal, evidence that the desire to impeach the president hasn’t spread much beyond a core of activists. There is further evidence that interest in impeaching the president may not be as high as some liberals suspect. Just about every president gets some people riled up. It is easy to forget that many liberals also wanted to impeach President George W. Bush. In fact, the current search volume for impeaching Mr. Trump is lower than the search volume for impeaching Mr. Bush was in September 2005 after his mishandling of Hurricane Katrina. It is also lower than the search volume for impeaching Barack Obama in October 2013 during the government shutdown. Granted, these other presidents took longer to get there, but they, too, got people talking impeachment. Over the next few months, we can follow both the various investigations concerning Mr. Trump and the search patterns of his fellow Americans. We will know that the impeachment movement has gone mainstream when interest spreads beyond hard-core liberals living in Alaska, Montana and elsewhere and reaches the mainstream Democrats in Illinois, New Jersey and other blue states.