As I squinted and sweated to the office recently, I realized that summer’s here and it’s too late to work out. This is the body I find myself in, pale as the moon, heavy as the soil after rainfall, the only one I have to get me through to September. “It’s not designed for heat or brightness,” I complain to my co-worker. “This is the worst thing about being white and …” I search for the words “and portly!” He’s black and svelte, and looked at me for a long moment before saying, “I believe it, and you should really think about that.” I told him it was all I could think about, then I showed him my heat rash. On summer days, New York City can be as much as 10 degrees warmer than its surrounding areas, because of the asphalt, concrete and metal that trap the heat. We’re certainly living on an urban heat island, one that seems to shimmer and expand during the long, sweltering days. Everything gets louder, closer, brighter. Underneath all of this the subway trains rumble along, slower than usual. On a stalled 6 train, in a carriage with a busted air conditioner, a collective sigh goes up. A woman looks up from her phone and asks nobody in particular, “Am I crazy, or is this train taking forever?” A man whose armpit is in my face and whose toolbox is squashing my feet speaks into my hair: “She needs to chill.” I squeeze my eyes shut and pray silently, to nobody in particular. “Give me an airy mountain, a rocky glen.” The train shunts forward, only the toolbox to keep me from falling. “Give me a silty stream with moss covered banks that I may lie down and die in!” I need to chill. My bald friend Gary gets to the bar and announces, “This town is so sexy in the summer.” I mutter, “No, it’s not,” as I unpeel the back of my legs from the stool. My long-limbed friend Lindsay sails in, talking about how she needs this summer to go on forever, and how we should go to the rooftop and soak it all in. Gary is happy to, because he has his little sun hat with him. I agree to go up on the condition that we sit in the shade. The antiseptic qualities of heat and light are much lauded, I know. Bad things fester and mushroom in the dark, I get it. It’s just that the cold suits me. Put me in a caped woolen coat, see how my gray-blue eyes narrow instinctively against the drizzle, witness my wintry magnificence! Now, wedged into a sundress, I am humiliated. I watch an elderly woman in a tidy red pantsuit walking her dachshund down Greenwich Avenue. Despite the material in their outfits, nylon and fur, respectively, they look cool, unbothered. I examine the woman closely as we wait at a light. Is that … talcum powder? She moves away. I’ll never know. In the seminal New York City in the summer movie “Do the Right Thing,” Rosie Perez wears a fantastic yellow top. I try one on, but it makes me look sickly. That gives me an idea. Perhaps I could model my summer style on the dying woman in the movie “Beaches” — you know, Bette Midler’s dull friend. She wore white shirts with cream cardigans, huge straw hats and actual blankets. I find these outfits ideal, in that they prevent both sunburn and male attention. I tell my therapist about my summer dread. She nods. Not a solution-oriented person, she proceeds to remind me that she will be away for the month of August. That’s going to be the hottest month! What am I supposed to do then? I verbalize in the way she taught me that I feel abandoned (in advance) and this behavior (vacation/disappearing) does not meet my expectations of our relationship. She nods. I follow her eyes to the clock. My time is up.  In need of answers, I called the city’s Department of Parks and Recreation to speak to the boss there, Commissioner Mitchell J. Silver. He told me he’s actually the head of the “department of fun, health and happiness” and that he and his colleagues know just how to beat the heat. There are more than 50 outdoor swimming pools in the city, spray showers and splash paths in playgrounds and new ferries sailing between the city’s beaches. Splash paths? I’m listening. Commissioner Silver tempts me with talk of amazing Atlantic breezes and delicious concession stands on the Rockaway Boardwalk, but that’s where I stop him. It just seems so effortful, you know? In the heat and all. “With respect,” I tell him, “I’m not an active person.” He urges me to find a park, a canopy of trees. “It’s cooler there, under the trees. You can bring a blanket and relax.” He grew up two blocks from Prospect Park in Brooklyn in the days before air conditioning and tells me that the park is seared into his heart. And speaking of hearts, he also mentions that parks are the best date spots. “You know something, if you take someone to Central Park and walk down that mall, they’ll fall in love within a matter of five minutes.” I decide against bewitching someone, at least until this rash clears up. Instead I walk alone and slowly through Prospect Park. The trees are leafy and generous, dappling my way. Families are out, every kind of family. Various flavors of smoke mingle in the air, and the sun watches over us all, very pleased with himself. I fold the brim of my hat for a second and look up, nodding to my old foe. He stings my eyes and I retreat, settling under an elm tree, ready to Instagram into oblivion. It’s cooler here, and I can’t help feeling that most simple and elusive of feelings, “this is so nice.” My phone slips out of my hand and I leave it. Then something tiny and buzzing lands on my leg. Is it stinging or biting? I don’t know, but I’m certainly slapping. And just like that, the summer rage blooms within me once more.