My mother was three months away from graduating when soldiers opened fire on her and other students at the National University of El Salvador. It was June 1980, several months into the Salvadoran civil war, and the military believed that students were aiding guerrilla fighters. My mother fled the attack past wounded classmates and blood-spattered walls, shaken but unharmed. The school closed. The war lasted 12 more years. By the time it ended, my mother and my father were residents of the United States on their way to citizenship. My father, who was in his second year of college when the National University closed, had been studying to be an industrial engineer. My mother was training to be a clinical psychologist. But in their new home, my father worked odd jobs and eventually landed a gig managing medical supplies at the U.C.L.A. My mother cleaned Bel-Air mansions until she died of breast cancer in 2008. You can imagine my family’s joy when I was accepted at Stanford in 2011, and their pride when I graduated four years later. The knowledge of how hard they worked, and how far we had come, brought tears to my eyes frequently over my graduation weekend. There was no more special way to honor them than by participating in Nuestra Graduación, the separate graduation ceremony for Latino students at Stanford, a tradition that was started in the 1970s. At that time, there were very few Latino faculty members at the university and no course offerings that might be called Chicano or Latino Studies today. The secondary commencement ceremony was established to recognize the unique backgrounds of Latino students in a setting that would feel inclusive to them. Though management of the event has changed hands over the years, the ceremony itself has stayed mostly the same. It takes place the day before Stanford’s official graduation and begins with a Spanish mass at the historic Stanford Memorial Church, a Romanesque building erected in the shape of a cross. The commencement is held in the church, too. Graduates line up outside with their parents and proceed into the building. The ceremony is bilingual. Faculty and staff from the student resource center El Centro Chicano y Latino speak about each of the graduates as they and their parents receive stole-shaped serapes. Students, along with their parents and grandparents, then turn and face the crowd, taking in a moment of cross-generational triumph. The whole family receives applause, and then it’s off to a reception with food, drink and mariachi music. This year, some 90 students participated in Nuestra — the largest group to date. Alternative commencements have recently become more popular on college campuses. Harvard hosted its first commencement for black graduate students this spring. Columbia has its own ceremony for first-generation graduates, and the University of Delaware has joined a growing list of colleges with “Lavender” ceremonies for L.G.B.T. graduates. These ceremonies aren’t held in place of official graduation ceremonies, but are an additional celebration of the work of students from marginalized communities. So often, students who come from backgrounds that aren’t well represented at their college feel that they don’t belong; or if they fit in, they may end up feeling distanced from the communities they came from. Alternative ceremonies are an acknowledgment of a community within the college — an opportunity to honor collective perseverance in the face of unique challenges. I remember so vividly standing before the altar at the Stanford Memorial Church. We had come to the university with different backgrounds, but many of us students could connect over the obstacles and barriers our parents faced in order to guarantee our education. Among the attendees of Nuestra Graduación, I was not set apart by being the bilingual daughter of working-class immigrants. I was distinguished as a member of the unified “comunidad.” When I placed the colorful graduation stole around my father’s neck, I felt like we were sharing something that had been taken from both him and my mother long ago. My mother’s spirit was with us, too. We had all made it to graduation.