Bret Stephens:  Somewhere between the appearance of Jeff Sessions before the Senate and the Cosby Horror Show mistrial, we had this awful attempted massacre of Representative Steve Scalise, the G.O.P. whip, and others on a baseball field in Virginia. This seems to have prompted three types of reaction from the national commentariat: He (the shooter) is nuts; you (the person on the other side of the political divide) are nuts; we (the country in which all bad things conspire to produce this) are nuts. Where do you come down? Gail Collins: I would certainly never say you’re nuts, Bret. Obviously the Virginia shooter was crazy, and if we had a semi-sane gun culture he might not have had a weapon that destructive. The idea that the Second Amendment guarantees your right to tote around a rifle that can shoot forever — some of them will fire 100 bullets before reloading — is nuts for sure. Bret: This inevitably is going to be an issue that forever divides liberals and conservatives, but I’m hard-pressed to see this shooting as a gun story. For starters, the rifle he used typically has a 10-round magazine (though I understand they can go as high as 40). Also, while I’m all for keeping guns out of the hands of mentally ill people, he would have been unlikely to have been diagnosed as such. He was an angry and abusive man, like many other Americans — with the same right to own a rifle as millions of other Americans. That seems to me the nub of the issue. I don’t have any particular fondness for guns or gun culture. But like it or not, the Second Amendment licenses the possession of all kinds of firearms that can do grave damage in the hands of the wrong people. I wish liberals would be more forthright and say it’s the amendment that needs to change, not the size of magazine clips. Gail: Hodgkinson was a licensed gun owner, and while his history obviously indicated anger issues, I don’t have a scenario under which he’d have been deprived of the right to buy a weapon. But every time this kind of thing happens we need to talk about how crazy the national gun culture has become. Hardly a week goes by that some aggrieved employee doesn’t walk back into work and mow down his boss and co-workers. This isn’t about repealing the Second Amendment. I tend to look at the country as a land divided between empty places and crowded places. It’s easy to understand how people who live in rural areas would want a rifle on hand. Just as most people in Manhattan like having as few guns around as possible. I just want the country to move toward a saner attitude toward the proper place of guns in our society — the kind we had before the N.R.A. turned itself into a right-wing lobby on steroids. Speaking of things that are nuts, can we talk a little about the Republican health care bill? It sounds as if Mitch McConnell is planning on bringing it up in the middle of the night, disguised as a measure renaming a post office in northern Wyoming. Bret: Wish I could comment on the substance of the bill, but this seems to be a case of Republicans reprising Nancy Pelosi’s line about the Affordable Care Act: the Senate version has to pass “so that you can find out what is in it.” Republicans howled about that phrase, but now they’re the ones in charge of the sausage factory. Gail: Suppose the Republican leadership wanted to do things the normal way. Is there any health care bill you would support that could make it through the House and Senate? Bret: Let me tell you what I wouldn’t support. I would not support a single omnibus package, since it tends to sacrifice good lawmaking for the sake of political horse trading, comprehensiveness and a “we’ll fix it later” mentality. I wouldn’t support “reform” that abruptly and unexpectedly kicked people off their insurance, the way Obamacare did. I wouldn’t support reforms that didn’t have long lead times. What I would support is a succession of smaller health care bills that could be written, debated, understood, passed and sold on their own merits. This would start with medical malpractice reform, not just because it’s a cost-saver but because med-mal is gradually ruining the medical profession. I’d support Republican efforts to create a well-funded “invisible high-risk pool” to pay insurance for people with potentially expensive pre-existing conditions. I’d eliminate the employer mandate, which is a job killer and a compliance nightmare. I’d support a universal health insurance tax credit that’s the brainchild of the economist John Goodman, the father of Health Savings Accounts. Bill Easterly, the development economist, makes a useful distinction between “searchers” and “planners” when it comes to figuring out solutions to large problems. Planners have a 100-year track record of doing things that look brilliant on paper and are disasters in practice. The virtue of piecemeal reform is that it allows you to debate solutions to discrete aspects of the system without demanding a complete overhaul. And there’s my 230-word solution to everything that ails the health system. No doubt I’ve covered all the bases. Gail: You’ve got a solution based on practicality (do this in little bits) combined with a political strategy that’s utterly unrealistic. If we weren’t in such a mad, hyperpartisan place, Congress could pass some specific fixes right now that would calm down the insurance companies and allow Obamacare to work reasonably well while they continued to debate other improvements. Never going to happen. The reason Obamacare is a mess is because Senate Republicans opted to pull out of negotiation on a bill that included many of their own ideas, and just focus on ruining whatever came down the pike. I doubt Chuck Schumer is going to reward them for that and seven years of political torment by helping them out. So Mitch McConnell is in the same corner Harry Reid was in when the Affordable Care Act staggered into passage. Except worse because these majority-party senators don’t think they’re making history — they know they’re creating disaster. Bret: You may well be right about the politics here, though my modest hope is that Republicans might try to take the logic of conservatism seriously by stressing modesty and incrementalism in advancing their goals, not Hail Mary passes that offer salvation only to those who think that it’s always the last down of the fourth quarter of the Super Bowl. Gail: You are such a good person, but pardon me. Hehehehehehehe. Bret: But look, there’s hope. The Supreme Court just agreed to take a case on the subject of the partisan gerrymander, and let’s hope they rule them unconstitutional. The partisan gerrymander has been the worst thing to happen to our politics in recent years, turning once-purple districts either bright red or deep blue, and accelerating the rise of the fringe and the decline of the center. It’s transformed politics from a game for dealmakers to a game for poseurs. The real subtext of this conversation has been the ungovernability of the country. Here’s a chance to make it — well, not right, but a lot less wrong. Gail: We’re in accord on gerrymandering. It’s been mainly a Republican ploy lately, but there’s no way I’m going to claim that Democrats haven’t done it, too, when they had the muscle. I’ve also seen plenty of legislatures where the lawmakers were simply driven by an intense obsession with keeping their own personal districts safe for their own personal selves. Bottom line is that redistricting should be done by the people all politicians have nightmares about: a bunch of nonpartisan wonks with computers in their laps. Always nice to end on a note of agreement, Bret. And today we hardly even mentioned Donald Trump! Here’s to summer.