Las Vegas — If you are an adult victim of sexual assault in Las Vegas, there is only one hospital where you can go to have a rape kit completed. Only two nurses in that hospital have specialized training to do the exam. In a metropolitan area of two million people, in a state with consistently high rates of domestic violence, the limited number of resources for sexual assault survivors seeking to prosecute, although troubling, is not unique. There are shortages of sexual assault nurse examiners throughout the United States, but such low numbers are more common in rural areas, where patients seeking rape kits may be redirected to hospitals hours away. These examinations can take a long time, up to six hours, and are most effective when completed shortly after the assault. Before receiving an exam, victims are encouraged not to change their clothes. Not to shower. Not to use the restroom. So if a patient’s nearest medical facility does not have the staff or resources available to complete the highly personal exam, or to provide sensitive, timely care, that victim may, as a result, choose to forgo reporting their assailant. The national issue of untested rape kits has gained attention in recent years because of initiatives like End the Backlog that have revealed the staggering numbers of untested kits sitting in law enforcement storage rooms. According to End the Backlog, there are approximately 8,000 that remain untested in Nevada. But before those rape kits can even accumulate in police departments, they have to be administered and sealed, typically by nurses. Certified nurses receive training on how to properly collect and preserve forensic evidence. They are prepared to testify in court. Research shows that sexual assault nurse examiners finish examinations in shorter time periods than untrained staff. They offer more emotionally sensitive care. Few nurses receive the training, though, and not all hospitals staff them. For some hospitals, the number of patients that seek sexual assault exams are so rare, just a few cases a month, that the cost of training nurses, or paying them to be on-call, is not financially feasible. But in Las Vegas, cases are not sporadic. Last year at Las Vegas’s University Medical Center (the only hospital in Clark County where the exams can take place), 718 people received sexual assault examinations, or about 50 to 80 per month. Las Vegas’s reputation for casual sexual encounters, domestic violence and sex trafficking certainly explains this high number of sexual assault victims and the backlog of untested evidence. Casinos (and their bottom lines) capitalize on day club and nightclub culture, environments where the line between consent and assault are quickly blurred. But the consequences are not just local. More than three million tourists visit the city every month. Of the victims that received examinations last year, just over 60 percent were residents. It’s impossible to know how many victims may have chosen not to obtain a rape kit because of these limitations. Low-income women, who are disproportionately victims of rape, are less likely to have the resources to travel to another hospital, or to have insurance that can cover the cost of an ambulance. The Violence Against Women Act guarantees rape victims the right to a sexual assault examination. But rights mean very little if they are unavailable based on your physical location, or are inaccessible because of your socioeconomic class, or are delayed because of the excessive violence that occurs against your gender. A 2016 report from the Government Accountability Office showed that although many states receive federal grants from the Department of Justice to address issues related to sexual assault, very little of that money is spent on training sexual assault forensic examiners. According to the report, Nevada was among the states that spent the least money on forensic training. Last week Nevada Gov. Brian Sandoval signed a bill that will require state law enforcement agencies to decrease the time between the initial sexual assault exams and the DNA analysis, which very few states currently mandate. The bill also allocates funds to help pay for the costs of testing rape kits. This is encouraging in terms of those kits still waiting for evidence testing, but it leaves many uncertainties for those who may become victims of sexual assault in my city. Alongside our embarrassing backlog of untested kits, our severe shortage of examiners is another example of how Las Vegas has remained complicit in the violence that occurs against women here. There have been federal efforts to address the national shortage of certified nurses. Last year, Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, introduced the Survivor’s Access to Supportive Care Act, which would increase the forensic training nurses receive. But the legislation, like many bills that primarily benefit women, stalled. The lack of trained nurses isn’t a challenge unique to Las Vegas. But like so much else in our culture, this city has become a focal point for a national problem — in this case, the immense hurdles victims face to win justice.