LONDON — Last Saturday afternoon in north London, Mohammed Kozbar, the general secretary of the Finsbury Park mosque, told an assembled crowd that all of us have a role in driving out those who seek to divide our communities and spread hatred. They “do not represent us,” Mr. Kozbar said, “do not represent our communities, do not represent our faiths. They are tiny minority, a bunch of murderers who only represent hatred, division and racism.” One day later, just yards from where Mr. Kozbar had spoken, Darren Osborne, a man consumed by hatred and intent on murder drove a van into a group of people as they left the nearby Muslim Welfare House. A man at the scene died hours later — though it was not clear whether the attack had directly caused his death. Several injured were taken to local hospitals. The terrorist was quickly pinned by bystanders and shielded by an imam who pleaded with the angry crowd not to take vengeance on the perpetrator. “Don’t hit him, hand him over to the police,” he is reported to have said. His words were duly heeded. On Tuesday night I visited the scene of the attack, full of admiration for the resilience of the local population and touched by the way in which Londoners of various ages, faiths and backgrounds turned up with flowers, intent on simple acts of kindness. That scene had a special meaning for me because on Saturday Mr. Kozbar had been speaking to one of many communities — from all around Britain — that had gathered to mark the first anniversary of the murder of my wife, Jo Cox, who was killed by a far-right extremist while going about her work as a member of Parliament. We wanted to send a message that the extremists spoke for nobody but themselves: “This is the spirit we need to promote, the spirit which Jo Cox tried to promote and she lost her life because of that, the spirit of love, compassion and peace. Not the spirit of hatred, division and racism,” Mr. Kozbar said. In recent weeks people driven by hatred have shown that they can hurt us — here in London, in Manchester, at a baseball ground in Virginia or on the streets of cities elsewhere that are, sadly, too numerous to recite. But each time the public’s reaction has been the same: The terrorists can never and will never win. Whether they are driven by Islamist extremism or political extremism, whatever the color of their skin or the ideology they may claim as inspiration, the terrorists deserve not just to be condemned, but to be hunted down and driven from our midst. Of course, the security response must be robust, well resourced and relentless, but we mustn’t imagine that our security services alone can deal with this. We all have to play our part, by building closer communities and by showing that we stand united against hatred — no matter where it comes from. And of course, some people seek to use terror to drive their own agenda of hatred, or choose to ignore certain acts that don’t reinforce their own prejudices. President Trump’s tweets defending his travel ban and criticizing our popular mayor, Sadiq Khan, after earlier attacks and his silence after this one on Muslims have not gone unnoticed here. Anybody who seeks to drive a wedge between communities or to turn one group against another is doing exactly what the terrorists want us to do. That is not leadership. Those people, however elevated their positions, are not part of the solution; they are part of the problem. The response to the murder of my wife, just like the response to this latest act of terror on the streets of London, shows our society at its best. Yes, we feel sadness. Yes, we get angry. So we should. But we are not powerless. We choose how we respond in circumstances such as these. Those who make the wrong choices will not escape responsibility for what they say and do, and the rest of us will not be held back from doing what we know to be right.