Christopher R. Hill, a former United States assistant secretary of state for East Asia Pacific, led Washington’s delegation in the six-party talks, which from 2005 to 2009 aimed to reach an agreement with North Korea over its nuclear program. The New York Times talked with him about Otto Warmbier, an American student who died Monday in Cincinnati after 17 months in North Korean custody. How should Washington respond to the death of Otto Warmbier?  The United States needs to demand a full accounting of what happened to Mr. Warmbier, who was 21 when he was arrested in early 2016, apparently for trying to make off with a poster as a souvenir while visiting the country. He paid for this transgression with his life. North Korea’s opaqueness about everything means Pyongyang will try to close this case, hoping that Washington will move on. The United States should never move on. A full accounting needs to include Mr. Warmbier’s whereabouts during his last 17 months, precisely when and how he fell ill, and what treatment he received. Americans should be allowed to interview the medical personnel who were involved. Should the United States take military action if the North Koreans refuse to cooperate? We would be morally justified in launching a military attack. The North Koreans have left us to conclude that our citizen was brutalized in their custody. But a military strike would be a mistake now — for the same reasons that bedevil possible military action in response to the country’s nuclear program. We cannot attack the North without risking retaliation against the South, which would pull the United States into a broader conflict. At least 20 million South Korean lives would be put in danger if the North retaliated against the South, and Seoul is unlikely to agree to support United States military action now. Sustained diplomatic pressure, including more sanctions, offers the best way forward, for now. Is this a deliberate strategy by Pyongyang? What does the regime hope to achieve by holding Americans hostage?  Things don’t happen in North Korea by accident. Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, has raised the holding of unsuspecting and unwitting foreigners to an art form, often as part of a broader diplomatic game, a constant attempt to force the United States to come to his country as a supplicant, seeking a favor on bended knee. North Korea has one of the worst human rights records in the world. We know from refugees and defectors that brutalizing prisoners to extract a confession is very much part of the North Korean judicial system. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, we must assume that this modus operandi applied to Mr. Warmbier. Should Washington allow Americans to travel to North Korea?  Given the danger to United States citizens in the country, it is time to take the unusual step of imposing a ban. What should other countries in the region do to help rein in North Korea?  Washington and Beijing have a lot of catching up to do. We need to address areas of mistrust and better prepare for hypothetical crises. The United States and China share the goal of denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula: We need to explore how to get there. Difficult as it is, a way forward exists. We could agree on some quiet measures, in the space between war and peace, to retard the North Korean nuclear program. I’m thinking here, for example, of launching cyberattacks against the North. In working with China, we can’t leave out South Korea. There should be no agreements that limit South Korean sovereignty. South Korea cannot become a mostly demilitarized state with a neutral foreign policy. Seoul is a vital partner. How does hostage-taking interfere with the work of diplomacy? Is it just part of the game?  Hostage-taking is repugnant. Whenever Americans have been taken captive, the United States government has made it a top priority to gain access to the hostage and seek early release. When David Rohde, then a Christian Science Monitor reporter, was taken into custody by the Bosnian Serbs in the middle of the Dayton peace talks, we turned our attention to his plight and let the other issues wait. Mr. Rohde (who later worked for The New York Times) was quickly released. North Korea is still holding three Americans, and Washington must continue to make their release a priority.