On Tuesday, Ryan O’Callaghan, the 33-year-old former New England Patriots and Kansas City Chiefs offensive tackle, came out as gay. After a battle spanning more than a decade of coming to terms with his sexuality and even contemplating suicide, the former football player was candid about the war that was raging within him. In an interview with Outsports.com, Mr. O’Callaghan, who hails from a small conservative community in California, talked about realizing he was gay when he was a junior in high school but deciding at a young age he would never be able to “live as a gay man.” He discussed his feelings of isolation and said he rarely saw depictions of gay men like himself in the media. The 6-foot-7-inch, 330-pound athlete even admitted that whenever he heard his friends or family using gay slurs it felt like a stab to the gut. Using football as a disguise, he hid his sexuality. He planned his death for the end of his athletic career until people in the Kansas City Chiefs organization helped him come out of the closet, bringing new life to a fully realized, fully queer, fully valid version of him. But coming out of the closest is just the first step. There is still nearly 15 years of emotional trauma that Mr. O’Callaghan, and many other L.G.B.T. folks, must spend time coming to terms with. Processing the self-loathing and hatred shaped by a fear of not having your family, community or the world accept you is a daunting task that must be addressed to live a healthy lifestyle. Dropping the guise of who you think you are and conquering your inner enemy in order to love yourself is a journey we all must walk alone, no matter what our identity is. This “internalized homophobia,” or the mental distress that L.G.B.T. endure as a result of an involuntary belief that heterosexuality is the “normal way to be” perpetuates stereotypes, violence and negative sentiment toward the L.G.B.T. community from both gay and straight people, and has detrimental effects on mental health. Until recently I wasn’t sure what “internalized homophobia” meant. But I had been living with it my whole life. In my head I felt like I was always hiding in plain sight, living under the constant fear and paranoia that someone would think that I was different or, worse, gay. When I came out as bisexual to my friends and family in my junior year of college, the love and support I received was unconditional. Some people even told me that they had always known. But here’s the thing: I didn’t always know. I didn’t want to believe I was bisexual. When I came out, I was afraid of accepting myself and my place in the L.G.B.T. community. I still have trouble processing the 22 years of guilt and shame I have felt and the denial of who I am. And so will Ryan O’Callaghan. Coming out of the closet is crucial and necessary to accepting who you are, but coming to terms with what has been hiding inside the closet is an even bigger step to take. Wrestling with suicidal thoughts is a huge personal struggle. Add that to rejecting your identity for over a decade and you have a recipe for self-sabotage. For myself, the fight didn’t end at coming out as bisexual because I will to have to come out to people for the rest of my life. I am going to constantly wonder whether or not I will find a man or woman to accept and love me for who I am and even if they did, will I ever have children or grandchildren? Will I have to live in a community that doesn’t accept queer people? One major source of comfort has been seeing people like Laverne Cox in Netflix’s “Orange Is the New Black,” the fierce and inspiring queens of “RuPaul’s Drag Race,” or the courageous and poised lesbian and gay athletes like the tennis legend Billie Jean King and Ryan O’Callaghan. Every day I’m able to find a silver lining. A sliver of hope and new way to find representation of the L.G.B.T. community that makes me feel like my identity is valid and like there is more than enough room for me in this world. It has taken me over a decade and it may take me the rest of my life but for right now I’m just happy to be moving forward.