The flood of news in recent days has all but swamped a fascinating Supreme Court decision that deserves more than a footnote to the term now coming to an end. The ruling defied expectations in nearly every way that counted and suggests a more complex picture of the Roberts court than its notably ideology-riven decisions usually offer. The subject was citizenship, specifically the circumstances under which children born overseas to unmarried parents acquire United States citizenship when one parent is a citizen and the other isn’t. Cases dealing with citizenship have often sharply divided the court; in fact, six years ago, with Justice Elena Kagan recused, a four to four tie left the justices unable to resolve the precise question the court decided last week in Sessions v. Morales-Santana with near unanimity. The justices typically defer to Congress in cases concerning citizenship. But this time, the court declared unconstitutional a provision of the Immigration and Nationality Act that makes the path to citizenship for foreign-born children of unmarried parents dependent on whether the citizen-parent is the mother or the father. An unwed mother can transmit her citizenship as long as she herself has lived in the United States for at least one year. But for unwed fathers, the prebirth residency requirement is five years (it was 10 years before a 1986 amendment). The differential treatment of mothers and fathers, six justices held in an opinion by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, violates the constitutional guarantee of equal protection. Justice Ginsburg’s distinctive voice was evident throughout the opinion, which drew on the sex discrimination cases she argued and won before the Supreme Court as a young advocate for women’s rights (many of those cases, like this one, had male plaintiffs) as well as on a landmark majority opinion she delivered early in her Supreme Court tenure that forced the all-male Virginia Military Institute to admit women. The greater burden placed on unwed fathers, she wrote in the new case, reflected age-old assumptions about unmarried parenthood and a stereotyped view of an unwed father’s ability to be a responsible parent: “Overbroad generalizations of that order, the court has come to comprehend, have a constraining impact, descriptive though they may be of the way many people still order their lives.” The law’s distinction between men and women, she wrote, “is stunningly anachronistic.” It was pure Ginsburg. The justice noted that the immigration law’s basic framework dates from the 1940s and ’50s, “an era when the lawbooks of our nation were rife with overbroad generalizations about the way men and women are.” Are what? Just “are.” At the core of Ruth Ginsburg’s lifelong project is the conviction that there should be no separate spheres for men and women in the eyes of the law, and that distinctions based on what “most” men or women do, on the choices that “most” of them make, is an obstacle to full legal equality. Anyone acquainted with Justice Ginsburg’s body of work would have found many familiar passages in her majority opinion. But then at the end came the decision’s stunner. Although Luis Ramon Morales-Santana, the Dominican-born man who brought the case — and whose United States citizen father failed by just 20 days to meet the 10-year residency requirement that was in effect when Luis was born — won his constitutional argument, his victory was a hollow one. Striking down the mother-father distinction did not, at the end of the day, make him a citizen. In fact, because of a criminal record, he now faces deportation to the Dominican Republic, which he left at age 13, 41 years ago. When a court decides that a law violates the equal protection guarantee by treating differently two classes of people who should be treated the same, it has two choices: confer the benefit on both groups, or take it away from the class the law favored. In either event, the two groups end up being treated the same, and equal protection is served. Nearly always, the Supreme Court has chosen to “level up” — to confer the benefit on both. This was the result in the cases the young Ruth Ginsburg won. Federal benefits to families with dependent children, specified in the Social Security Act as available only to families with unemployed fathers, were extended to families with unemployed mothers. And Social Security benefits available only to widows were extended to widowers. But in this case, the court leveled not up, but down. Congress itself should fix the problem, Justice Ginsburg wrote, but until it does — an optimistic “in the interim” — the five-year residency requirement for unmarried fathers will now apply to unmarried mothers as well. (Justice Ginsburg made clear that the change was prospective only.) This outcome raises the question: What, then, was the point of this case? Some untold number of children, to be born in the future, outside the country’s borders, to unmarried American citizen mothers, will undoubtedly be worse off than they would have been had the challenge to the mother-father distinction never come before the Supreme Court in the first place. Formal equality was achieved, to be sure, but it was equality with a price — a high price for many. In her opinion, Justice Ginsburg addressed why “this court is not equipped to grant the relief Morales-Santana seeks.” She explained that the general rule set by Congress for conveying citizenship to foreign-born children when the parents are married subjects citizen fathers and mothers to the longer residency requirement. The shorter requirement for unwed citizen mothers is itself an exception to the general rule. The question for the court, she continued, was what choice Congress would have made had it known that the exception was constitutionally vulnerable: Would it have extended the exception to unwed fathers, or would it have withheld it from the mothers? “Although extension of benefits is customary in federal benefit cases,” she wrote, “all indicators in this case point in the opposite direction. Put to the choice, Congress, we believe, would have abrogated [the] exception, preferring preservation of the general rule.” Was this explanation persuasive? Not to me, actually, but then I wasn’t Justice Ginsburg’s primary audience. Her fellow justices were. When the case was argued last Nov. 9, it was clear that the court was going to struggle with the question of remedy if it found an equal protection violation. And the more than seven months that elapsed from argument to decision made it clear that a struggle was going on. By the time of the June 12 decision, the case was the oldest undecided case on the court’s calendar. (By contrast, two of the cases the court decided on Monday of this week were argued in late April.) Justice Ginsburg is one of the fastest writers on the court, so obviously some heavy negotiating was going on during those seven months. Was leveling down the price she had to pay to hold a majority? Two justices, Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr., wrote separately that they agreed with the remedy, thus providing a unanimous 8-0 vote for the final judgment. (Justice Neil Gorsuch didn’t have a vote, since he joined the court after the case was argued.) The two justices added in their two-paragraph opinion that because “the court’s remedial holding resolves this case,” there was no need to have decided the constitutional issue. The fact that Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. joined Justice Ginsburg’s opinion in full is intriguing. Finding an equal protection violation doesn’t come naturally to him. In fact, he almost certainly voted to uphold the mother-father distinction in Flores-Villar v. United States, the case that ended in a tie vote (and therefore without an opinion) six years ago. Assuming that Justices Stephen G. Breyer, Anthony M. Kennedy and Sonia Sotomayor joined Justice Ginsburg then in voting to strike down the distinction, Chief Justice Roberts must have voted with Justices Thomas, Alito and Antonin Scalia to uphold it. Something persuaded him to change his mind. Maybe the remedial judgment gave him sufficient comfort. And what about Justice Ginsburg? Can we assume she’s happy with the outcome of the case, or do we suppose she wrote the remedial section with gritted teeth? Twenty-four years ago, in July 1993, she was President Bill Clinton’s first Supreme Court nominee, and I covered her Senate confirmation hearing. I had met Judge Ginsburg several times, but didn’t know her well. I found her Judiciary Committee testimony enlightening, and I wrote an analysis that appeared under the headline “A Sense of Judicial Limits.” I described her as “something of a rare creature in the modern judicial lexicon: a judicial restraint liberal.” By that I meant that while her own commitments were to liberal outcomes, she displayed an equally strong commitment to letting Congress take the lead. “In her view, equality — or any other goal — is best achieved if all branches of government have a stake in achieving it.” So I’m ready to assume that if the remedial portion of her opinion last week was a compromise, it was one she offered willingly. Her “over to you, Congress” handoff may seem naïve in the present political climate, but it conforms with her deepest beliefs about the appropriate judicial role. And it’s worth remembering that from her earliest years as a nervous young lawyer standing before the nine men of the Supreme Court, Ruth Ginsburg has always played a long game, with the ultimate goal, equality of the sexes, constantly in view. As this case turned out, the price for equality was high. But I don’t doubt that for Justice Ginsburg, it was a price worth paying for being able to strike a blow against still another law based on a generalization about the way “men and women are.”