“It’s O.K., Mommy. I’m right here with you.” Many mothers in America have heard these words, or similar, spoken to them by their small child. The usual reasons are mundane: a mother frantically looking for a child who quietly sneaked into the toy aisle while no one was looking; a mother with an overwhelming migraine or a terrible cold. In each of these cases, the child reassures a parent who can reassure the child in return that all is well, that the scary moment won’t last. Well, at least that is how it usually goes. Those words were also spoken by a 4-year-old girl to her mother, Diamond Reynolds, after both witnessed Philando Castile’s being shot and killed in the front seat of his car on July 6 in St. Paul by a police officer. Reynolds’s recording of the incident went viral. It showed her to be a paragon of calm and obedience in a situation that ought to have induced hysteria and rebellion, generating sympathy, admiration and yet more rage over the fact that blacks must first and foremost always consider their demeanor, even when they’ve done nothing wrong, even when they are being wronged. And for Reynolds and her daughter’s terrible troubles, a jury last week found the police officer not guilty. Again. The observation that police so infrequently pay the price for their fatal impulses, often justified by the legal catchall of being afraid, is at once very significant but also very tiring. One gets to asking, when will it end? The fundamental ethical failures of our law enforcement and judicial systems are readily apparent to all but the least empathetic or morally attuned. But for all the overhauling our systems clearly need, there is something else awful in what seems to be the unending destruction of black life at the hands of the state — the education children receive in the process of state-sanctioned killings of loved ones and of those who look like them, only bigger. The lesson that Reynolds’s daughter learned: When the state kills a loved one, remain calm and preternaturally reassure your parent, not that you wanted to ogle the playset one aisle over or that you hope her headache passes, but that her boyfriend bleeding out in the front seat will soon be buried and life will go on, that “Mommy, I’m right here with you.” Diamond Reynolds’s daughter came to mind a year after Castile’s shooting not only because of Officer Jeronimo Yanez’s shocking/not-shocking exculpation but because at nearly the same time Yanez was being freed to enjoy his life as if he had not unjustifiably killed a black man for being black, Charleena Lyles was shot and killed by the police in her home in Seattle with children present. Lyles had a history of encounters with the Seattle police. On June 19, she called for help to report a burglary, and as is clear in the audio released of the officers’ conversing in preparation to engage Lyles, they deemed her unstable, noting that there was a cautionary safety flag attached to her name. Indeed, Lyles had a history with the law, which raises questions about the responses to mental illness and how they intersect with race: If officers knew she had a history of mental instability, why not be en route with a trained professional and armed with nonlethal weapons? The shooting of Lyles, who the officers claim produced a knife, recalls the story of Eleanor Bumpurs, a 66-year-old black woman shot by the police in her own home in the Bronx in 1984. Bumpurs did produce a knife while naked and raving. She also suffered mental health issues but her death was avoidable — authorities were fully aware of her difficulties yet went armed to put down an intentionally dangerous person. While Bumpurs was also a mother, her daughter was older. Lyles, however, was shot in proximity to small children, while pregnant. IN JANUARY 2016, I was the privileged recipient of a letter-writing campaign by the students of a New Orleans elementary school. The students, who are predominantly black, wrote me in response to a piece I had published here in The Stone on the significance of Martin Luther King Jr. Day. Each expressed in her or his letter to me deep disappointment in America. Not one of them was naïve or uninformed by the state of injustice black Americans face. One student wrote: “When [my teacher] told me about her student that got killed from gun violence, I told myself that I still don’t think that us black people are free. For instance, I thought of this when the cop choked [Eric Garner] and he said, ‘I can’t breathe’ and then continued until he died. That cop still didn’t go to jail.” Consider for a moment what it means for children, not even at the age of puberty, to begin to perceive and comprehend not just bad luck in life or economic hard times but that the country behind the flag they most likely are expected to pledge allegiance to every day betrays its most fundamental values by allowing those sworn to protect and serve to shoot and strangle without being held to account by the laws the flag represents. Consider for a moment what it means for a future, developing, malleable citizen of a democratic society to be taught with a straight face that even though the founders owned slaves, they considered all men to be created equal. Consider what it means for that child to be told with a straight face that there is such a thing as an American dream even as their daily lives open up more opportunity for the kind of macabre nightmares the most comfortable of us tend to think are reserved for despotic so-called Third World nations. If Donald Trump ever said one true thing, it might have been that blacks are living in hell, but it’s not for the reasons he seemingly thinks — rather it’s because history and the institutions that history has shaped won’t leave us alone. The problem when the children are exposed to such tragedy is not only a matter of the emotional trauma they surely face. There is no question this is crucially important. But I want to focus your attention on something that affects our collective self-interest as democratic citizens: What kind of education are we providing the children of black Americans? They don’t need to sit in the back seat of a car to hear the fear an adult is hiding or be forced to sympathize with the loss of a loved one to begin to grasp the precarity of black life in America. In a tech-savvy society, they can watch YouTube and see how easy it is for a police officer to strangle someone and be home in time for dinner. They can easily see how unwise it is to call the police when you need help — it could turn out they arrive and cause more trouble than is worth inviting, no matter the other dangers you thought surrounded you. A democratic society depends on basic trust and a sense of institutional stability and integrity. But when a society at once calls itself democratic but continues to abuse its minority population, that population’s youngest and most impressionable witnesses would be right to question whether this is a decent society, a democracy, at all. The fact that young black Americans, the New Orleans students in this case, are clear on the pitfalls of American life does not mean they are without hope. Many expressed the aspiration to attend an Ivy League college, and others held back a tide of racial distrust by quickly pointing out that they had white friends or white teachers they cared for and who cared for them. Yet, maybe on account of my own weariness, the one letter that has remained in my mind most vividly congratulated me on my own personal success and in the same breath cautioned, “But just remember one thing: Don’t die yet, O.K.?” What can I say to that? Black Americans are clearly not the masters of their destiny in the manner our educational system so enthusiastically portrays the potential power of each American life. One cannot lie to these children — they know better. Diamond Reynolds’s daughter now knows better. The children who were in the apartment when the Seattle police shot and killed Charleena Lyles know better. So why don’t the grown-ups?