Washington — After weeks of speculation and secret meetings, on Thursday Senate Republican leaders unveiled their version of the plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. On the surface, this bill and its optics are unbelievably bad. It cuts health benefits for millions of poor and disabled Americans, increases costs for the elderly and others, and slaps a temporary Band-Aid on the Obamacare insurance markets. And it surely fails to deliver on President Donald Trump’s promise to make insurance both better and more affordable. Oh, and fewer than one in five Americans support the bill’s close cousin that has already passed the House. So what is the supposed wizard of the Senate, the majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, thinking? After all, he’s not just backing an unpopular bill — he’s pushing his conference to vote on it by the end of next week. In fact, there’s a method to his madness. Mr. McConnell is not one to take unnecessary risks; nor is he an ideologue who will stop at nothing to get his agenda enacted. Rather, what seems to be an electoral disaster in the making is a highly strategic, partisan gambit. First, he’s probably betting that it’s better to keep party promises than to buckle to majority sentiment. Republicans vowed for years to repeal and replace Obamacare. By stitching together a deal that aims to meet the demands of conservative and centrist Republican senators, Mr. McConnell can claim the bill as an unalloyed win for conservative voters. It cuts taxes on the wealthy, ends government mandates and slashes entitlements — a dream come true for the ideological right. Second, the bill delivers the goodies now and kicks costs down the road. Mr. McConnell has engineered a deeply cynical, but not uncommon, legislative move: The bill cuts taxes immediately and retroactively, but it pushes draconian health care cuts for the poor and disabled into the future. It is a classic case of Edward Tufte’s “myopic policy for myopic voters.” Mr. McConnell gambles that by delaying the downside to 2020 and beyond, he can muffle and deflect blame when voters hit the polls in 2018. Third, he’s clearing the deck for tax reform. Republicans prefer to spend their time on taxes, not health care. Under normal Senate rules, action on both issues requires votes from Democratic senators, a tall order in polarized times. Instead, Republicans have submitted to arcane budget rules that let them pass bills with a simple majority, i.e., without the Democrats. But there’s a catch: There’s only one set of tracks that can carry these sorts of filibuster-proof measures, and the rules allow only one train car on the tracks at a time. Granted, Republican cleavage has thus far precluded any progress on taxes. But until health care is off their plate and budgeteers can prepare the next bill, tax reform is stuck in the rail yard. That’s the bet. Will it pay off? Skeptics have pointed out that Mr. McConnell is walking a tightrope between the poles of his Republican conference. He can spare the votes of only two of 52 Republicans, relying on Vice President Mike Pence to break a 50-50 Senate tie. What’s more, the bill must still pass muster with complicated budget rules and secure consent of the House and the president. So this is not yet a done deal, at all. And lots could go wrong. The bill was initially greeted with silence from the president, who called a related House bill “mean” even after feting its passage in the Rose Garden. And on the Hill, a historically divided Republican conference is not yet on board. On the left of the Republican conference, blue and purple state Republicans reacted skeptically. That’s not surprising given that the related Republican House plan polls terribly among Democratic and independent voters. Other senators need convincing that the bill will meet the particular health care needs of rural states. And the bill’s ban on funding Planned Parenthood for a year jeopardizes the votes of the Republicans’ two lone pro-choice senators. On the far right, Republicans object that the bill keeps too much of Obamacare. And some could stake their votes on adding stronger limits on funding plans that cover abortion. Moreover, this isn’t the only big request Mr. McConnell will make of his conservative colleagues this year. The challenges of funding the government and raising the debt ceiling in particular await him. It’s easy to assume that the pull of these two sides will carve off enough senators to kill the bill. And lawmakers rarely vote for unpopular measures. But Mr. McConnell’s gamble is that the bill’s strategic value, however cynical, will persuade just enough members to go along. And of course, even if the health care bill fails, he still clears the tracks for pressing business ahead. Conventional wisdom says to never bet on a bad bill. But it also says to never bet against Mitch McConnell.