A benefit of living in a small college town with a big-time college basketball team is that in the course of grocery shopping, changing your car’s oil or donating blood, there’s a not-insignificant chance that you’ll meet in real life the hoops stars you watch on TV. That happened last summer: My daughter Georgia and I were running an errand on the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill campus when we bumped into Tony Bradley. At that point, we hadn’t actually seen Bradley on TV. He was U.N.C.’s top incoming freshman and wouldn’t play his first game for the Tar Heels for several months. But at 6-foot-11 and wearing Carolina blue basketball shorts, he was easily recognizable, and Georgia asked to have her picture taken with him. He graciously obliged, and I snapped the photo on my iPhone. It was a great shot — Georgia, who was 5 at the time, didn’t even come up to Bradley’s waist — and I looked forward to more chance pictures of her with Bradley during his Chapel Hill career. As I saw it, the series would serve as her growth chart — a modern version of the life-size poster of Manute Bol, the 7-foot-7 N.B.A. center, that I hung on my bedroom wall and measured myself against when I was a kid. By the time Bradley was ready to leave U.N.C. in three or four years, Georgia might even reach his rib cage. But the photo series was not meant to be. On Thursday, Bradley was selected with the 28th overall pick in the N.B.A. draft. After a single season at U.N.C., he’d decided to go pro, one of about 20 one-and-done players who were eligible for this year’s draft. Until now, U.N.C. and its fans have largely been insulated from the one-and-done phenomenon, in which the nation’s best young basketball players spend a year in college — to meet the N.B.A.’s minimum age of 19 — before turning pro. Because of the cloud of a seemingly never-ending academic scandal, not to mention Coach Roy Williams’s reputation for insufficiently showcasing his freshmen players, Chapel Hill hasn’t been a prime destination for future one-and-doners. In fact, Bradley is the first U.N.C. player in 10 years to leave after his freshman season. Although U.N.C.’s inability to recruit one-and-dones has been supremely frustrating for Williams, it has actually been a good thing for fans like me. That’s because, paradoxically, it has led to more wins. With upperclassmen-laden rosters most seasons, the Tar Heels have made deep runs in the N.C.A.A. tournament: In 2016, U.N.C. lost on a buzzer beater in the championship game; this year the Tar Heels won it all. But what makes these victories even sweeter is who’s achieving them. The 2017 national championship team’s starting five consisted of two seniors and three juniors. By the title game, Carolina fans had been cheering them on for three or four years. We’d watched their bodies get bigger (or in the case of the previously rotund Kennedy Meeks, smaller) and their skills improve. In short, we’d watched them grow up. When they were freshmen, I supported these U.N.C. players because they wore the uniform of my favorite team, but eventually I came to cheer for them as individuals. No play in the championship game made me happier than Isaiah Hicks’s driving, hanging bank shot with about 25 seconds left, and it wasn’t just because the basket put U.N.C. up by three points. It was because Hicks, a senior who’d come to U.N.C. highly acclaimed out of high school but had struggled for much of his time in Chapel Hill, had just given himself a storybook ending to his college career. I greeted his success the way I would a friend’s. I and my fellow Carolina fans were hoping to get the same opportunity with Tony Bradley. Granted, part of the reason we wanted him to come back to school was that the team would have been a lot better next season with him on the floor, his presence being the difference between a Final Four contender and a team that will probably be fortunate just to make it to the Sweet Sixteen. But more than that, I was looking forward to watching Bradley develop — eager to see him expand on the flashes of brilliance he displayed as a freshman, to see him grow from a gawky teenager into a confident young man. Witnessing that process, after all, is one of the great satisfactions of being a college hoops fan. Now that Bradley is gone, some of my fellow U.N.C. fans have turned against him. They note that after averaging just 14.6 minutes and 7.1 points per game during his one college season, he was extremely, perhaps undeservedly, fortunate to get selected, with only two picks to spare, in the first round (and therefore receive a two-year guaranteed contract). They question his judgment and his motivations and feign concern that he’ll ultimately wind up playing in the developmental league or overseas — almost as if they’re hoping for such a result, just so that they can say they told him so. This is the height of selfishness. You might even call it “fan privilege.” College basketball, perhaps more than any other major sport, gives an illusion of intimacy between its fans and its participants. We like to think that the players on the court aren’t that different from their “classmates” in the stands — who, after all, are just younger versions of ourselves. But this is a fiction. The young men who play basketball at powerhouses like U.N.C. might stay in school for three or four years, but they’re just like their peers who suit up for Duke or Kentucky and leave after one: They’re all trying to get to the N.B.A., most of them as soon as they can. Tony Bradley has decided that now is the time for him to make that move. And who am I, as a fan of the college team he chose as his steppingstone to the N.B.A., to question — much less resent him for — that decision? The absence of one-and-dones at U.N.C. has allowed its fans to believe that when we’re cheering the Tar Heels, we’re doing more than, as Jerry Seinfeld once put it, “rooting for the clothes.” But if that’s true, that means we should cheer Carolina players in all their pursuits — even if those pursuits ultimately run counter to our own immediate rooting interests. So that’s why, on Thursday night, I cheered just as hard for Bradley when he was picked in the first round as I did on that Monday night in April when he came off the bench to help U.N.C. win a national championship. I only hope that many years from now, when Bradley is in the middle of a long and rewarding N.B.A. career, Georgia and I will bump him into again — and she won’t be too grown up to want her picture taken with him.