This week, a video of a 12-year-old girl coming out as gay to her Mormon congregation in Eagle Mountain, Utah, went viral — and it’s easy to understand why. Savannah is adorable. She wears a red tie, which is already a statement, since wearing pants to church as a woman can be controversial. She stands in front of a room of adults delivering her testimony about how her Heavenly Parents “did not mess up when they gave me freckles. Or when they made me gay. God loves me just this way because I believe that he loves all of his creations.” I watched the video with particular interest: I grew up Mormon and sat through hundreds of testimony meetings, which take place on the first Sunday of every month in Mormon congregations all over the world. Anyone can get up and bear their testimony — it’s basically an open mike. The less creative types tend to just rattle off a list. It usually starts, “I’d like to bear my testimony,” and then they fill in the blanks: I know the church is true. I know Joseph Smith is a prophet of God. I know God is our Heavenly Father and He loves us. The best speakers tell harrowing stories about a life-changing experience that led them to their faith. But typically, it’s just a woman named Susan who talks for 10 minutes about how she needed to buy water balloons for the church picnic, but totally forgot, and on the way to the picnic she had a funny feeling in her bosom and looked up and saw a red balloon tied to an exit sign. And so she took the exit. And, you’re not going to believe it, but guess what? There was a CVS with water balloons — get this — on sale. Oh, and the church is true. The first time I got a laugh from a crowd was at a testimony meeting when I was around 10 or 11. I remember the feeling, a room of 150 people laughing (it’d take a decade in comedy to get a crowd that big). I started going up and trying out material, which, at the end, I’d somehow wedge into being about Mormonism. I am a shy, intensely self-critical person. But every time I spoke in testimony meeting people told me how proud they were of me for being vulnerable. That’s what should have happened with Savannah. There’s a moment in the video that hit me so hard I made an involuntary crying noise, more like a burp than a cry. I just didn’t see it coming. About two and a half minutes in, she tells the congregation directly and confidently that she deserves to be loved and to have love. And then she says, “I want to love myself and not feel ashamed for being me. I ask you … ” And then the mike goes out. She taps it, confused, like the victim in a horror film who doesn’t know that she’s going to be killed yet. From behind her, the bishop, a man whom she undoubtedly knows and looks up to, whispers to her that she needs to stop and go sit down. At that moment, her entire demeanor changes; it’s like she wilts before your eyes. She turns back to the mike and picks up her notebook. She’s blushing and she keeps her eyes on the floor, head down, as she walks away. Suicide is the the leading cause of death among 10 to 17-year-olds in Utah, a state where 60 percent of residents are Mormon. But some are arguing that the reason for the suicide spike among Utah youth — it’s tripled since 2007 — is the altitude. In the 27 years I lived as a practicing Mormon, at churches in Washington State, Utah, New York City, London and Madrid, I never once saw someone cut off in the middle of his or her testimony. Not once. We sat through some truly crazy testimonies, politely biting our lips and making eye contact like: Well, this is going off the rails. Jean, an earnest English woman, once bore her testimony in song, which she freestyled. There was a guy named Andy who regularly used his time to air his grievances. “I’m not saying any names, but someone in this congregation cheated me out of a sum of money, I won’t say how much, but they know who they are.” No one cut his mike. One Sunday, a regular, an older woman with long bright-white hair named Pandora got up and told the congregation that the angel Moroni visited her the night before and he told her some new stories that she needed to share with us. I remember my little brother and sister looking at my mom like: Wait, this is breaking news! And my mom whispering something to the effect of: Not true. But no one cut the mike. Think about it. How often do we ever cut the mike, really? It’s an action reserved for the drunk bridesmaid toast, when Becky decides to just “get real” for a minute and confess she slept with the groom. Or that scene in “The Fugitive” when Harrison Ford crashes the convention to tell the crowd who the real killer is (though, O.K., there isn’t technically a mike in the scene, but you get the gist). Or the first time Peter Finch goes haywire on air in “Network.” We cut the mike when someone is truly unhinged. Not when a 12-year-old girl asks her community to love her. Mormons are genuinely conflicted about gay people. Members of the church sincerely want to be good people, and Jesus teaches us to love one another. But the current prophet says being gay is a sin. So the compromise that Mormons have struck is to love the sinner and not the sin. The problem is that when you actually love a person, you want them to be free. And then everything gets really confusing. It’s much easier to do those mental gymnastics when there isn’t a little girl in front of you, giving a speech about how much being in the closet has made her suffer. I know this because I used to do all those mental gymnastics myself. I wanted to belong to a church that was loving. And I knew that this prohibition against gay people wasn’t loving. But instead of trusting that very simple observation and what it meant, I tied myself up in knots trying to figure out how to stay Mormon. I knew the truth, or my truth, all along. I just wasn’t willing to face up to it. I am familiar with the particular type of silence that falls on testimony meeting. It’s uncomfortable and loud. And in the silence that followed Savannah’s testimony, she went back to her seat, put her head in her mother’s lap and sobbed. And everyone in her church had to listen.