The wicked witch is back. This time, her name is Nancy Pelosi. The House minority leader was the prime punching bag for Republicans during the Georgia race Jon Ossoff just lost, targeted in a series of ads painting him as her puppet and the epitome of the reviled Washington liberal establishment. Now a rump group in her own party has chimed in, blaming her for a loss that could as easily be credited to a weak candidate who had shallow roots in the district. Nevertheless, the group is calling on her to step down, insisting she’s a liability for the party. Ms. Pelosi is just the latest in a long line of female politicians — on the left and the right — who have proved rich and resonant targets. Hillary Clinton. Sarah Palin. Michele Bachmann, the former House member from Minnesota. Then Hillary Clinton once more. In each case, gender wasn’t the only issue. There were plenty of self-inflicted wounds, as well as genuine ideological opposition. Yet each woman was attacked in ways that play off sometimes subliminal, often indignantly denied, biases about women shared by men and women alike. Overtly ambitious women stir unease and register as less likable, said Adrienne Kimmell, executive director of the Barbara Lee Family Foundation, which has been studying women’s political races for 20 years. Voters have more trouble relating to a powerful woman than a powerful man. Women who are seen as political insiders — or as dishonest, which many voters lump together — suffer more than do men. Witness the 2016 election. “People aren’t even aware that it’s discomfort with women who have too much power,” said Christine Matthews, a veteran strategist and president of Bellwether Research who has advised many Republican campaigns. “Republican women disliked Hillary Clinton even more than Republican men. They couldn’t stand her. They couldn’t relate to her.” As Ms. Kimmell put it: “Ambition is a four-letter word for women.” That discomfort is reflected in visual portrayals of female politicians, who are often depicted as unstable and physically repulsive. Unless, as in Ms. Palin’s case, they’re mocked as too attractive to take seriously. Ms. Matthews noted that Chuck Schumer, who leads the Democrats in the Senate as Ms. Pelosi does in the House, has not become a comparable target, even though they are both public faces of opposition to the Republican agenda. “Just type into Google Nancy Pelosi liberal, then Chuck Schumer liberal, and take a look at the difference between the images,” she said. “Her eyes are gigantic, she’s whacked out, she looks weird.” That’s also the case in many cartoons of her. Another frequent trope is labeling women as crazy, which Ms. Matthews said was thrown at Mrs. Bachmann, along with Ms. Pelosi and Mrs. Clinton — who, for good measure, was mocked for her laugh, often likened to a cackle. Ms. Matthews pointed to a recent diatribe written by a group called Chicks on the Right, which called the minority leader Princess Pelosi and featured unattractive pictures of her. (They note her “weird horsey face.”) Ms. Pelosi and Mrs. Clinton have also come under fire from their own party, with pointed references to their ages and the need to step aside to make way for a younger generation. “To me, what keeps coming back is women aren’t allowed to age,” said Debbie Walsh, the director of the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University. “We don’t drum out older men and tell them they can’t be in the positions that they’re in.” She said she did not recall comparable pressure being brought to bear on Tip O’Neill, who served five consecutive terms as speaker of the House and retired at 75. Ms. Pelosi is 77. Of course, opposition to Ms. Pelosi extends beyond gender. Many Republicans despise her because she successfully shepherded Obamacare through Congress. She’s seen by a group within her own party — how big or influential is still unclear — as a liability because she is unpopular in some parts of the country where Democrats would like to pick up seats in the 2018 midterm elections. A YouGov poll conducted in June found her unfavorability ratings second only to President Trump’s — and higher than Senator Schumer’s, Ms. Matthews noted. Indeed, Mr. Trump and President Barack Obama have inspired bouts of loathing so intense they scorch our political landscape. But it’s hard to escape the way Ms. Pelosi, like Hillary Clinton and Sarah Palin before her, became lightning rods for derision and contempt, expressed in ways that compound lingering stereotypes, whether or not we want to acknowledge them.