Imagine that enemies possessed a class of weapons with which they attacked your people from time to time. Decades could go by with no attack, but eventually one would come. Imagine also that these weapons were growing more potent, and the attacks were becoming more frequent. Now imagine that there was a way to protect your people from these threats. But making it would be expensive, and could take years. So it was not being made. Each attack brought death, panic and an outcry: “Where is our defense? Why are we not protected?” But as soon as the attack passed, so did interest in preparing for the next one. As you probably have guessed, this is about Ebola. And SARS. And Zika. And MERS, bird flu, swine flu, Lassa fever, Marburg, Rift Valley fever and the whole range of pathogens — including the ones we don’t know about yet — that can rapidly go from outbreak to epidemic to pandemic. These diseases are not going away. They are called zoonoses, which means they are harbored in animal populations — pigs, monkeys, bats, camels, birds — and so can never be eradicated. Next January will begin the centenary of the 1918-19 pandemic swine flu known as Spanish flu. One estimate from the Centers for Disease Control says it killed between 20 million and 50 million people worldwide in three waves and infected 500 million people — a third of the world’s population then. The death toll exceeded that of World War I. Today, the numbers might be even higher, and the spread of infection far quicker. According to mathematical modeling by the Gates Foundation, a virulent strain of airborne flu virus could spread to all major global capitals within 60 days. Within 250 days, it could kill more than 33 million people. “There will be more and more outbreaks developing into big epidemics,” said Peter Piot, director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine and the first head of Unaids. (He was also a member of the group that discovered the Ebola virus.) “With greater mobility, population pressures and climate change, we’ll see more of that.” A United Nations panel studying epidemics recently concluded: “The emergence of a highly pathogenic influenza virus, which could rapidly result in millions of deaths and cause major social, economic and political disruption, is not an unlikely scenario.” Pathogens are not only terrifying, they’re expensive. The 2003 SARS epidemic cost $30 billion in only four months. A flu pandemic of a severity that occurs every few decades could contract the global economy by 5 percent — some $4 trillion. Why don’t we develop vaccines for these pathogens? Many are relatively uncomplicated — scientifically. But they are economically complicated. Developing a new vaccine costs hundreds of millions of dollars — and that’s to make a product with no commercial demand. No pharmaceutical executive could be expected to put that kind of money into a product that would be needed largely by poor people in poor countries — if it’s ever needed at all. And they are politically complicated. Outbreaks tend to begin, and spread most widely, in countries where people live in proximity to animals, especially where the surveillance and health systems are poor. In the panic of an outbreak, this can get ugly. During the Ebola crisis three years ago, many American politicians argued that we could be safe if we just kept the sick people out. And some of the measures they proposed — like mandatory quarantine for people returning from working in affected countries — were unsupported by science and may have deterred needed personnel from helping to stop the epidemic. “We’re always fighting to make sure it’s about caring about people who are affected, and not defending yourself from the affected person,” said Joanne Liu, international president of Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders). Building a wall against disease is not only an ugly strategy; it’s a losing strategy. Ebola, swine flu, Zika, and SARS all reached wealthy countries. What protected Americans from Ebola was ending the epidemic. And that meant — among other strategies — creating vaccines. As of a few months ago, this is starting to happen. The project is called CEPI — the Center for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations. After the world’s failure to control Ebola quickly in 2014 and 2015 cost 11,000 lives and at least $6 billion, three global experts proposed a vaccine development organization with $2 billion in start-up funding. Harvard, the National Academy of Medicine and the United Nations all created commissions that proposed ways to avoid another catastrophe. Among other steps, all endorsed vaccine development. In January 2016, Piot led a meeting at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, with pharmaceutical executives, government ministers, epidemiologists and foundations such as Gates and Britain’s Wellcome Trust. Officials from Norway and India were particularly active. “We were trying to determine, is there an appetite for this?” said Piot. “Is there a need for this? There were different opinions about how to do it, but the answer was yes. Ebola was the wake-up call.” At Davos a year later, CEPI was officially started — an unusually fast beginning in a world that routinely sleeps through endless wake up calls. Its headquarters are in Oslo, with offices in London and New Delhi so far. Richard Hatchett, an American, became CEPI’s chief executive in mid-April. He said the organization wants to raise a billion dollars for its first five years and has raised nearly $800 million so far — from the governments of Norway, Japan and Germany, the European Commission, Gates and Wellcome. India is preparing a donation. A lot of money? Not if you’re talking about vaccine development. Over the next five years, CEPI aims to develop multiple viable vaccine candidates against three pathogens: Lassa fever, Nipah and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome. The three were chosen because they are geographically diverse, having stricken Africa, South Asia and the Middle East in recent outbreaks with high fatality rates. And vaccines for those diseases looked promising. The organization plans to take these candidates through all the trials and regulatory approvals possible before an outbreak, and then to produce a stockpile of vaccines that can be quickly tested for efficacy — and then used — during an epidemic. Developing a vaccine is never easy, and getting it approved can be even more complex, possibly requiring assent from every country that could be hit. One of CEPI’s goals is to create simpler, more agile structures for approvals. CEPI’s second goal is to create a vaccine delivery system that can be quickly adapted to stem new pathogens — just as scientists simply plug a new strain into the flu vaccine each year. Once the vector is fully proven, a new agent or strain requires little testing. CEPI also aims to achieve full approval and manufacture for the Ebola vaccine — and yes, there is one. The world’s initial response to Ebola in 2014 and 2015 was calamitous. But one thing that ultimately worked was the rapid creation and deployment of a vaccine. That became possible because promising vaccine candidates had been sitting in storage in Canada and the United States; they had been developed by researchers worried that a terrorist might weaponize Ebola. The W.H.O. coordinated a huge effort to get them tested, approved, produced and into the field in just six months. The process can normally take a decade. No large-scale efficacy trials were possible, however, because the epidemic was winding down by the time candidates were ready. Still, in Guinea, one of the candidates was used on an investigatory basis, employing a method called ring vaccination — in which an Ebola patient is identified, and all of his or her contacts are vaccinated. The vaccine proved 100 percent effective, and finally ended that epidemic. Nevertheless, it still lacks the formal approvals needed for large-scale production and use. And other promising candidates need to be developed as well. CEPI has no manufacturing facilities. It will, instead, finance research and development at pharmaceutical or biotech companies. “But it’s not just giving the money and going away,” said Hatchett. “We have internal experts and capabilities. And through our partnership with the World Health Organization, I would hope to be able to facilitate connections with public health officials and scientists in countries at risk.” Creating vaccines is not the same as guaranteeing that people who need them can get them. CEPI will require its awardees to sell vaccines to the poorest and lower-middle-income countries (more likely, to donors who will buy vaccine for them) at the lowest possible price. For wealthier countries needing vaccines, CEPI’s pharmaceutical partners won the right to charge substantially higher prices — even in countries like Jordan, Equatorial Guinea, Ecuador and South Africa. CEPI’s donor nations could also be paying high prices. Their citizens will essentially be paying twice, since any vaccines will have been financed by their tax dollars. Sadly, this is too often the case when governments fund drug development. CEPI also agreed to cede intellectual property to the companies — also business as usual. Hatchett said that CEPI will retain the rights to use the knowledge if manufacturing partners can’t or won’t meet their obligations. Rohit Malpani, director of policy and analysis at MSF, points out that such rights exist in the United States when the government funds drug development — but they have never been used. The pharmaceutical industry is too powerful. “CEPI will pay for it, so they should own it,” he said. “We would like to see a public return on public investment.” CEPI’s value may go beyond the success of any single vaccine. The organization’s ability to streamline a vaccine process will likely matter more than any new product, said Seth Berkley, the chief executive of GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance, which works with pharmaceutical companies to gain accessibility to vaccines for poor countries. “If they are successful in building a vector that can be rapidly scaled up for new agents, in how to do regulatory approvals, in how to do rapid clinical trials, that will be very useful.” The biggest threat to this mission is not scientific, but political — our short attention span. “Trying to raise money for Ebola now is impossible,” said Berkley. “The same with yellow fever, Zika, cholera. The biggest problem will be sticking with the program and having consistent long-term financing.”