The news read like a bad joke. Bill Cosby, fresh off his trial for sexual assault, was planning to give a series of speeches ... on how to avoid being accused of sexual assault. “This issue can affect any young person — especially young athletes of today,” Andrew Wyatt, a representative for Mr. Cosby, said last week on a Birmingham, Ala., TV station. “People need to be educated on a brush against the shoulder,” said Ebonee M. Benson, who works with Mr. Wyatt. “Anything at this point can be considered sexual assault.” Mr. Cosby was accused of drugging and assaulting Andrea Constand at his home in 2004, not brushing against her shoulder. The case ended in a mistrial and Mr. Cosby is out on bail awaiting a retrial; he also faces civil suits from at least 10 women. All told, at least 60 women have accused Mr. Cosby of rape or sexual harassment. His team took a page out of the Trump playbook on Monday, blaming the media for “sensationalism” about the meetings and saying they would not be about sexual assault but about education. On Tuesday, a lawyer for Mr. Cosby cast doubt on the entire speaking tour, saying, “I just don’t think the timing is right.” The whole episode was particularly ghoulish, but it was not the first time someone accused of sexual assault has offered to act as a spokesperson for sexual safety. Brock Turner, a former Stanford student who was convicted last year of sexually assaulting an unconscious woman behind a Dumpster, said in a letter to the judge in his case that he wanted to help dissuade others from following in his footsteps. “I want to show that people’s lives can be destroyed by drinking and making poor decisions while doing so,” he wrote. “One needs to recognize the influence that peer pressure and the attitude of having to fit in can have on someone.” The proposition provoked public outcry, and Mr. Turner does not appear to have made any speeches yet. Brandon E. Banks, a former Vanderbilt University football player who was convicted earlier this month of aggravated rape and aggravated sexual battery for his role in the gang rape of an unconscious woman, had previously participated in at least five presentations about sexual assault awareness and prevention for student athletes, the Chronicle of Higher Education reported. Tyrone White, the speaker who organized the events, said Mr. Banks was there to show students the “real-life consequences” of their actions. At his trial, Mr. Banks said he was afraid his teammates would beat him up if he didn’t participate in the rape. “He is the classic example of someone who has been abused by a group, whether it be a football team, a fraternity, or any other group nowadays, that requires complete loyalty, complete obedience,” his lawyer said. Mr. Banks’s victim found his speaking engagements “shocking and disturbing,” her lawyer, Alex Little, said in a statement to the Chronicle. “We are deeply distressed that these coaches and administrators treat gang rape as a mistake that should be avoided rather than the violent crime it is,” Mr. Little said. “This attitude is even more troubling, given that Mr. Banks has yet to accept responsibility for his actions.” Mr. Cosby, Mr. Turner and Mr. Banks are not appropriate spokespeople for sexual violence prevention. By offering advice before his trial was even concluded, Mr. Banks was adding to the pain he had caused his victim when he should have been performing restitution. Mr. Turner seemed to be offering a muddled ideology that conflated drinking with rape. And Mr. Cosby has yet to express remorse for his actions, though his own description of what he did to Ms. Constand is chilling to say the least. But Mr. Turner’s and Mr. Banks’s explanations for their behavior can offer some critical lessons for anyone interested in preventing sexual assault. While “peer pressure and the attitude of having to fit in” are no excuse for assault, they do explain how destructive ideas about masculinity and sex can spread among boys and young men. And while being bullied is not a valid defense for rape, it’s certainly true that abusive groups can encourage their members to abuse others. A culture that lionizes male sexual conquest and ignores or even demonizes women’s sexual desire does not absolve anyone from committing a crime, but growing up in such a culture certainly makes men more likely to disregard women’s feelings and see sex as a way to bolster their own masculinity rather than something that should take place between two enthusiastically consenting adults. Sexual assault prevention needs to address that culture, rather than simply focusing on the behavior of individuals. That means far more than a few college assemblies about consent. It means looking at how we talk to children about their bodily autonomy well before sex even comes into the picture — in other countries, consent education can start as early as kindergarten with lessons on expressing affection. When sex does come into the picture, it means teaching boys, as well as girls, that it’s O.K. to say no to sex, and that their worth does not depend on how many partners they’ve had. It means teaching them to speak up against misogyny and violence, even — especially — among their friends. It means giving them a definition of masculinity that allows for introspection, self-awareness, compassion and empathy. The point of delivering these messages isn’t to help boys and men avoid being accused of sexual assault. It’s to teach everyone that other people’s bodies are not objects to help them feel good about themselves, raise their social standing or fit in. And it’s to transform a culture that enables, even tacitly encourages, sexual assault into one that supports consent and mutual respect. Once that happens, the notion of men like Mr. Cosby offering their wisdom will seem like an outrage to everyone.