This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. The collapse of the Senate health care bill is good news. But I’d suggest that everyone remember March 23, when the House bill also seemed to collapse. Six weeks later, after only minor changes, the House passed a version of the same bill. Don’t assume the Senate bill is dead. For more on health care, you can read pieces from the Editorial Board and Frank Bruni, as well as an op-ed on Medicaid and drug abuse. Now onto the bulk of today’s newsletter: Marriage before children is no longer the norm in the United States. More than half — 55 percent — of parents between the ages of 28 and 34 were not married when they had their first child, according to a new analysis of federal data. Some of these millennial parents later married, while others remain unmarried. Either way, it’s a stark change from the past. The question that inspires heated debate is whether this trend is a problem. I think it is, and the new analysis offers some relevant evidence. The analysis, released by the American Enterprise Institute and the Institute for Family Studies, comes from Wendy Wang and W. Bradford Wilcox. It borrows from a concept called “the success sequence,” developed by Ron Haskins and Isabel Sawhill of Brookings Institution. People who follow the success sequence first receive at least a high school degree, then get a job, then get married and then have their first child. Doing so, the researchers argue, increases the odds that both the parents and their children will succeed — economically and socially, as well as in terms of health status and life satisfaction. I asked Wang and Wilcox to break out a couple of simple statistics that clarify their case. Here’s the most telling: Among parents between the ages of 28 and 34 who themselves had grown up in low-income households and then followed the success sequence, only 14 percent were living in poverty. For them, remaining in poverty was a relatively rare exception. By comparison, the poverty rate was 46 percent for those parents who had grown up in low-income households and then had a child without ever marrying. Versions of this pattern also exist among parents who grew up in middle- or high-income families: Those who had a child outside of marriage were more likely to have their families slip into poverty. The evidence isn’t the final word on the subject, because it shows correlation rather than proving causality. It’s possible that some other force in these parents’ lives explains both their family structure and their poverty status. But I think it’s likely that family structure is part of the problem. Other evidence points in the same direction. I know this topic is a sensitive one. It’s easy to point to children who thrived without married parents and to those who struggled with married parents. But it’s worth distinguishing between exceptions and the norm. And the new norm doesn’t seem to be a healthy one. It’s not clear how to encourage more people to follow the success sequence, but I do think we should be asking the question. David Brooks recently wrote a column related to this issue, looking at the reasons fathers leave their families and what might be done about it.