On Tuesday, I boarded the A train at 181st Street as I do every morning to get to work in Midtown Manhattan and took a seat in the last car. I finished the sports section of The New York Times and had just closed my eyes to listen to a meditation program titled “Turning Uncertainty and Discomfort Into Mindful Openness” when there was a violent jolt. Then another. The train came to an abrupt halt. In the dimness (the lights had gone out, but there were lights outside the train), I saw other passengers looking around, more than a bit stunned. This was a subway “stop” like no other I had ever experienced. The car was nearly full, but no one on it seemed to be hurt. Passengers pulled off their earphones, expecting some explanation over the intercom. But none came. Soon, there was a pounding at the window of the door that separated our car from the one in front. A serious pounding, until the glass broke. I wondered with growing alarm: Is someone trying to escape from a madman in the next car? I could hear people saying they could see fire, and smoke began wafting into our compartment through the broken glass. A man next to me began prying at the doors, trying to figure out how to escape onto the tracks. But the doors wouldn’t budge. Someone started to open a window, but other passengers shouted that he should stop, because that would only draw more smoke into our car. One woman was moaning, crying and gasping in panic, but other passengers got her to sit down, trying to calm her. In a New York moment, one guy announced that he had Xanax if anyone needed it. Nice offer, but I don’t think there were any takers. Next to me, a father was holding his daughter, maybe 2 years old, assuring her in a calm voice that all was O.K., that they would figure out why the train had stopped and it was dark. The child did not cry, didn’t even say a word. Many passengers used the flashlight app on their phones to provide some light. All around me, people were asking their fellow passengers if they were doing all right, especially the elderly ones. As I did mental calculations on escape routes, it dawned on me that the only possible way out would require breaking the windows. But then what? What would we do about the third rail, that electrified track that would instantly fry anyone who touched it? And where exactly is the third rail, anyway? I set the idea aside. After about 10 minutes there was an announcement, which, like most announcements on the subway, was scratchy and hard to hear. But I think it was telling us we’d all be safe. There was no internet connection but I typed a message to my wife and two daughters, telling them that my train had jerked to a stop and that we could smell smoke. I didn’t get around to typing the “I don’t know if we’ll make it out of this, but know I love you” part, but the thought did occur to me. Eventually word got back to us that all passengers were moving toward the front of the train. We all believed there was a fire ahead of us, but we got up anyway. And, indeed, the smoke got thicker as we walked through the cars. I suddenly got the sickening thought that we were in one of those dire situations where people are told to do something — stay or move — that turns out to be precisely opposite of the right thing to do. Some passengers did manage to get out of the train and onto the tracks, apparently through a broken window. I could see them outside the train — apparently not walking on the third rail — as we continued our march. There were firefighters in the tunnel, too. Between each car, there were passengers holding the doors open. In one car, the floor had buckled, and a rider aimed his phone flashlight at the damaged area so none of us tripped. At another point, we passed an open door and spotted a steel girder right outside. I later heard that a door was shorn off or crumpled by the tunnel wall, and that at least 34 people had been injured. The train had derailed, but New Yorkers had not. Through the entire episode, people — with no guidance or prodding or advice from the Metropolitan Transportation Authority — had been kind, calm and helpful to one another. The advice on my meditation program had proven easy to follow in what might have been a moment of terror. As I was nearing the first car, perhaps the only part of the train that had made it into the 125th Street Station, a smiling M.T.A. worker told us: “Thank you, passengers. That was the best evacuation ever.”