Last Friday, CNN sent a man with colored pencils into the West Wing of the White House to cover the news. It was the third time in a week the Trump administration banned cameras from the daily press briefing, so the cable network sent a veteran sketch artist to capture the not inconsequential news of the day: The Senate had just released details of a health care plan that would deprive 22 million Americans of health insurance, and President Trump announced that he did not, as he had previously hinted, surreptitiously record his conversations with James Comey, the former F.B.I. director. In our nonstop, high-resolution, streaming age, the sketches look almost comical — and indeed, many dismissed it as a stunt. Just when it seemed things couldn’t get more absurd, Steve Bannon, the White House chief strategist, offered this penetrating explanation for the sporadic prohibition against cameras: “Sean got fatter.” But the truth is that the decision to prevent the press secretary’s comments on the day’s most pressing matters from being televised is an affront to the spirit of an open and participatory government. It’s especially chilling in a country governed by a Constitution whose very First Amendment protects the freedom of the press. Unfortunately, the slow death of the daily press briefing is only part of a larger assault by the Trump administration on a precious public resource: information. Our government does millions of things each day. It purchases medicine for Veterans Affairs hospitals, it inspects agricultural products for safety, it counts trucks on interstate highways. Each of these actions creates a data record and, in aggregate, these records help us as citizens gain detailed information about the operations of government. Such data is a crucial tool for understanding and improving the way our government functions. However, under President Trump, the collection and publication of public data has been substantially undermined. Climate change related data has been the hardest hit — and most well-publicized — with long-standing Environmental Protection Agency and Interior Department websites being scrubbed of mentions of climate change and important scientific data about the environment. But this is just the tip of a rapidly melting iceberg. Immediately after Mr. Trump took office, the administration stopped publishing daily White House visitor records, reversing a practice established by President Obama detailing the six million appointments he and administration officials took at the White House during his eight years in office. Who is Mr. Trump meeting with today? What about Mr. Bannon? Good luck finding out. Under the Bush and Obama administrations, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration publicized the fines they levied on companies for worker-safety violations. Under Mr. Trump, this information has been buried on an obscure webpage. Such information is a crucial form of public accountability, putting in the spotlight employer negligence that threatens worker safety, like the conditions that led to a 51-year-old worker falling to his death in 2015 at a Brooklyn construction site while raking freshly poured concrete, or an explosion last June at a food additive manufacturer in Ohio that injured four workers. Legislative action in Congress is intensifying the crackdown on publicly available data. On June 8, the CHOICE Act passed in the House of Representatives. In addition to gutting many core aspects of Dodd-Frank meant to prevent another financial crisis, the law would block the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau from publishing complaints against banks by consumers. This would be a travesty: It was through such reports that the Wells Fargo fake account scandal surfaced and it remains a crucial way for consumers to have their voices heard. All of this is a sharp reversal of what had been a long-term trend under Republican and Democratic leadership toward a more transparent and open government. In 1966, the landmark Freedom of Information Act required that federal agencies make their records available to the public upon request, unless they have a compelling reason not to. In 1971, the Federal Election Campaign Act required campaign finance disclosures from candidates running for office. And in 1995, the Lobbying Disclosure Act extended transparency further into the role of money in politics. The last several years have in some ways seen an even more meaningful expansion of public access to public information. In 2013, President Obama signed an executive order mandating that federal agencies publish all of their data in open and machine-readable formats, allowing them to be analyzed and used in ways that scanned paper documents cannot be. In one of the few laws to be passed in recent memory with overwhelming bipartisan support, the DATA Act in 2014 was a watershed piece of legislation that requires every government contract and payment to be published in modern data formats, providing unprecedented transparency into trillions of dollars of public expenditures. Differences of belief and opinion are inseparable from the democratic process, but when the facts are in dispute or, worse, erased altogether, public debate risks breaking down. To have a free and democratic society we all need a common and shared context of facts to draw from. Facts or data will themselves never solve any problem. But without them, finding solutions to our common problems is impossible.