More than a third of Americans believe that Medicaid is akin to welfare, with the implicit subtext that racial and ethnic minorities are the principal beneficiaries. If that’s what they think, they’re dead wrong. Many more Medicaid recipients are white than black or Hispanic. Mick Mulvaney, a former congressman from South Carolina who is now the director of the Office of Management and Budget, promulgates the conservative view. Writing on May 22 for his home state paper, the Charleston Post and Courier, in an opinion piece that fiercely defended the Trump administration’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2018, Mulvaney argued: For years, we’ve focused on how we can help Americans receive taxpayer-funded assistance. Under President Trump’s leadership, we’re now looking at how we can respect both those who require assistance and the taxpayers who fund that support. For the first time in a long time, we’re putting taxpayers first. After laying down this classic Republican framework, Mulvaney puts his own spin on it: Taking money from someone without an intention to pay it back is not debt. It is theft. In other words, recipients of Medicaid and other federal programs that the Trump administration proposes to cut are thieves, and Mulvaney, with the president’s backing, is determined to end this criminal activity: So if you left for work this morning in the dark, if you came home after your kids were asleep, if you feel lucky to get overtime pay to support your aging parents or adult children, if you’re working part-time but praying for a full-time job, if your savings are as exhausted as you are, you have not been forgotten. Mulvaney has little understanding of or respect for social insurance — certainly as it is defined by Merriam-Webster: protection of the individual against economic hazards (such as unemployment, old age, or disability) in which the government participates. So who actually gets Medicaid? A plurality, 41 percent, of Medicaid recipients, are white; 22 percent are black; 25 percent are Hispanic; and 12 percent are other ethnicities, including Asian-American. In 18 states, at least 60 percent of Medicaid beneficiaries are white: ranging from 98 percent in Idaho and 93 percent in West Virginia to 60 percent in Minnesota and Nebraska. In Kentucky, which is represented by Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, Medicaid covers a third of the population. Seventy-eight percent of Kentuckians on Medicaid are white. Significantly, while 41 percent of beneficiaries of Medicaid are white, whites receive 51.8 percent of all dollars spent in the program, $149.5 billion out of a total of $288.9 billion in 2012, the most recent year for which such data is available. Whites participate at higher levels in the most costly Medicaid services, including the care of the elderly, of disabled children and of disabled working-age adults. In the four key Rust Belt states that provided crucial Electoral College votes for Trump in 2016, whites are the decisive majority of Medicaid recipients: 67 percent in Ohio, 59 percent in Michigan and 58 percent in both Pennsylvania and Wisconsin. Along similar lines, Medicaid provides benefits to significantly higher percentages of children in rural and small-town America, where Trump and Republicans generally won by their strongest margins. A recent Georgetown University study found that In 2014-2015, Medicaid provided health coverage for 45 percent of children and 16 percent of adults in small towns and rural areas, compared to 38 percent and 15 percent, respectively, in metropolitan areas. In McConnell’s Kentucky, the study found that Medicaid has become a crucial source of coverage for adults. Before the passage of Obamacare in 2010, 13 percent of adult Kentuckians were covered; after passage, in 2013-14, the percentage more than doubled to 28 percent. Over the same period, the percentage of uninsured adults in Kentucky fell from 26 to 10 percent. Since its inception in 1965, Medicaid has become an integral and major part of the American safety net. Not only does it cover health care for the poor, it prevents millions of members of the working and middle classes from losing all their savings and falling into bankruptcy when they or their family members become too old, sick or disabled to work. Medicaid also provides essential help in family planning, preventing premature births and supporting infant and child health. Diane Rowland, executive vice president of the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, provided the following information on the demographics of Medicaid beneficiaries. Medicaid covers 4.9 million of the 11.2 million children in the United States with special health needs, including those with autism, Down syndrome, cerebral palsy, spina bifida and muscular dystrophy. Nationally, 60 percent of children with special needs are white. There are 6.9 million working-age disabled adults — many of them the siblings, cousins, aunts and uncles of Mulvaney’s “taxpayers” — who are covered by Medicaid. Fifty-seven percent of the working-age disabled covered by Medicaid are white. They suffer from disabilities ranging from missing limbs, blindness and progressive neurological disorders to traumatic brain and spinal cord injuries. There are another 10 million elderly Medicaid recipients — many of them the parents of Mulvaney’s struggling taxpayers — who get Medicaid to cover long-term nursing home care, help with eating, bathing or dressing and care for cognitive or mental impairments like dementia. More than half, 56 percent, are white. The care Medicaid provides to these elderly men and women does not come cheap. In 2011, according to Kaiser, these patients accounted for 36 percent of total Medicaid expenditures. What all this data shows is that, contrary to the view that Medicaid is a welfare program, in real life Medicaid has become a financial, emotional and practical lifesaver for millions of Americans. This is especially the case for those with close relatives who need assistance and would otherwise be an enormous burden in one of the 29 states that have “filial responsibility” laws on the books that make it the responsibility of adult children to care for their indigent parents. How is it possible, then, that Senate Republicans are continuing to weigh the consequences of passing health care legislation that would inflict harm on millions of low- to middle-income white voters essential to the conservative coalition? On Monday, the Congressional Budget Office reported that the health care bill currently before the Senate would result in 22 million more people without coverage by 2026. The measure would not only cut Medicaid by $772 billion over ten years, it would also eliminate $408 billion in subsidies for those with low incomes but above the poverty level. The likely result, according to the C.B.O.: “few low-income people would purchase any plan.” Pressure on Congressional Republicans from conservative primary voters determined to repeal Obamacare, the continuing attractiveness to many Republicans of cutting taxes for the rich and the party’s commitment to reduce social spending all conspire to make it tough for Republican leaders to give up on this initiative. Their task is made easier by the fact that a majority of Republican voters stand apart from independents and Democrats in that they believe that Medicaid is indeed a welfare program. A survey conducted in May by the Kaiser Family Foundation asked voters this question: Which comes closer to your view, Medicaid is more similar to other health insurance programs, like Medicare, that help people pay for health care; or Medicaid is more similar to welfare programs like food stamps that help people pay for food? As noted above, just over a third of the 1,205 adults questioned, 37 percent, chose welfare, while 60 percent said Medicaid is like Medicare. Democrats (73-25) and independents (62-35) were solidly in agreement that Medicaid is a health insurance program. Republican were not. A majority of Republicans, 52 percent, said that Medicaid was a welfare program, and a minority, 46 percent, said it was a health insurance program. Drew Altman, president and C.E.O. of the Kaiser Foundation, wrote about this finding in an essay last week on the recently created website, Axios: Republicans want to roll back the Medicaid expansion, cap federal Medicaid spending increases, and add work requirements, drug testing, time limits, copays and premiums to some state Medicaid programs. But almost no one else wants to do these things. One poll finding goes a long way toward explaining why: Republicans view Medicaid as a form of welfare, and pretty much everyone else views it as a government insurance program. What Mulvaney’s characterization of means-tested programs as larceny leaves out is that for all the hard working men and women putting in overtime to care for their aging parents, there are many who face catastrophic situations beyond anything that overtime pay or modern families are able to cover. Think of the kind of full-time care provided to the 938,000 Medicaid beneficiaries currently in nursing homes in the United States. Nearly half suffer from dementia and more than half are confined to a bed or wheelchair. These men and women require, in addition to skilled nursing care, assistance with what are known as activities of daily living — bed mobility, transferring, dressing, eating and toileting — at $102,900 annually in a semiprivate room. In 2014, 78 percent of the 1.4 million nursing home residents in America were white. The census reports that the number of people in the oldest old age group, those over 85, is projected to grow from 5.8 million in 2010, to 8.7 million in 2030, to 19 million in 2050. If the Republican Congress cuts Medicaid along the lines of either the Senate or House legislation, Mulvaney’s hard-working taxpayers will face brutal choices. Medicaid is not, to use Mulvaney’s term, thievery. Thievery is what folks like Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell are proposing to inflict on their fellow Americans, a massive reduction in what has become a crucial source of support for those faced with impossibly high costs and impossible personal demands as caregivers. And speaking of thievery, the non-partisan Tax Policy Center has found that the tax changes in the Senate health care bill would give those in the bottom fifth an average tax cut of about $180, or 1 percent of their after-tax income. Middle-income households (making $55,000-$93,000) would receive an average tax cut of $280, raising their after-tax incomes by about 0.4 percent. In contrast, the top 1 percent, making at least $875,000 would receive a tax cut of more than $45,000, raising their after-tax incomes by 2 percent. And those in the top 0.1 percent (who will be making $5 million or more) would receive an average tax cut of nearly $250,000, boosting their after-tax incomes by 2.5 percent. In an appearance on PBS Tuesday, Warren Buffett described the Senate health care bill as the “Relief for the Rich Act.” All of which gives an ominous tenor to President Trump’s most recent statement on the pending health care legislation: “You’re going to have a great, great surprise. It’s going to be great.”