In their ardor to undermine and abolish the Affordable Care Act, Republicans in Congress are causing inestimable damage. Specifically, they are damaging the United States’ reputation for reliability among private companies looking to do business with the government. This is not a partisan statement. One of us is a Republican, the other a Democrat. We differ on many policies, including health care reform. But we agree that the circus atmosphere surrounding the Affordable Care Act — exemplified this week by the abrupt decision by the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, to delay the vote on the Senate’s replacement bill — is generating uncertainty, which in turn is jeopardizing the future of public-private partnerships. The health care industry consists of a dense network of public-private partnerships. Even programs widely viewed as “government” insurance, like Medicare and Medicaid, depend on private hospitals, doctors and insurers. Such arrangements can work only if private firms trust that the United States will be a reliable partner. Historically, this hasn’t been a problem. That appears to be changing. A decline in trust has already caused health insurers to rethink their relationships with their increasingly erratic federal partner. They’re demanding higher premiums to account for the greater risk. Blue Cross Blue Shield in North Carolina, for example, has said that its planned rate increase of 23 percent next year would be only 9 percent if it had more certainty from the federal government. Many other insurers have abandoned these partnerships altogether. According to Health Secretary Tom Price, 49 counties won’t have a single insurer on the exchanges in 2018. Why are insurers so skittish? Though much maligned, insurers in the individual market have a tough job. When they set premiums, they have to guess how much health care their enrollees will need. If they set premiums too low, they’ll lose their shirts. Too high, and they won’t get customers. Before Obamacare, insurers protected themselves from risk by gathering medical information and screening out people with pre-existing conditions. When Obamacare put a stop to that, insurers were in a bind. They had to set premiums without knowing in advance how sick their customers were. That’s not easy to do — which explains much of the fragility of the exchanges over the past three years. Lawmakers feared all this uncertainty would cause insurers to stay out of the newly formed insurance exchanges. So Obamacare employed a number of tools — in particular, financial subsidies and a mandate requiring all individuals to get insurance — to reassure firms that the market would be stable and healthy. Even with protective policies in place, insurers took a big risk entering the markets. At a minimum, insurers that took the plunge deserved the support promised in the law. Congressional Republicans, however, chose instead to sow uncertainty at every turn, hoping that a damaged reform law would be easier to repeal. These efforts began soon after Obamacare was signed into law. To shield insurers from unexpectedly large losses, the law created a temporary “risk corridor” program: an upfront financial commitment from the government. Republicans denounced this as a “bailout” and eventually used an appropriations measure to prohibit the Obama administration from making the promised payments. As a result, insurers are owed well in excess of $10 billion. Many have sued to recover the payments. The government’s refusal to pay weighs heavily on insurers as they confront two new problems. First, there’s the individual mandate, which congressional Republicans hope to repeal. One insurer has already invoked concerns about the mandate as a reason for exiting Iowa’s market. Second, Republicans are playing chicken with Obamacare subsidies that are meant to help low-income people cover their out-of-pocket costs. Because insurers don’t know whether the government will honor its commitment to pay those subsidies, they’ve had to ask for double-digit rate increases. Republicans appear not to have reckoned with the broader consequences of their uncertainty strategy. For example, Paul Ryan, the House speaker, wants to convert Medicare into a voucher program in which the elderly will shop for private plans. How will that work if insurers, burned by the Obamacare experience, are unwilling partners? This is perhaps the greatest irony of the Republican actions. Republicans (including one of us) have long believed in the benefits of even greater privatization of government services. But how can any company in any sector trust the United States after seeing health insurers treated so shabbily?