Every morning when I walk down the street in Bedford-Stuyvesant, my Brooklyn neighborhood, men try to stop me because they are attracted to my body. “Ayo miss, you are really beautiful. Can I have a moment of your time?” “Damn, ma, you got a fat ass. What’s your name? Do you have a number?” I usually smile respectfully and keep moving. More often than not, I hear footsteps behind me. I am flattered and terrified; I appreciate having my beauty affirmed, but I don’t know what will happen once this person comes closer. Many women worry about being sexually harassed or assaulted by men. I also have to worry about what will happen when men find out I’m trans. The year 2016 was the deadliest on record for trans people: At least 27 were killed. To live joyfully in a trans or gender-deviant body is to flirt with danger and even death, it seems. One morning a few months ago, a man said to me: “Where are you headed, pretty lady? Are you in a rush?” My heart pounded as he approached me. I tried to avoid contact. “Yes, I’m rushing to work,” I answered. As I spoke, his attention was no longer focused on my body; instead, it shifted to my voice. “Never mind, miss, you’re a dude. I thought you were a woman. Have a great day.” I sighed out of frustration and relief and kept walking. But I was still nervous, so I looked back to see if he was following me. He wasn’t. He was standing still. His gaze felt like a target on my back. Just as I found my stride again, I heard a familiar voice alongside me. “I really can’t believe you’re not a woman,” he said. “Do you have a number I can reach you at?” I pretended that I couldn’t hear him, that my music was too loud, that I was late for work. I finally reached the subway entrance, walked down the stairs and felt relieved that the station was busy. I was safe. I am a black trans femme, happy to be alive and grateful that a man’s desire for my body has not led to violence, which is all too common for trans women and gender-nonconforming people of color. And to complicate this even further: Black, fat and gender-deviant are the targets I wear on my back as I move throughout the world. People feel a sense of entitlement toward my body — whether they are random men on the street, goofy teenagers in Brooklyn, police officers, women and children on the subway, or people on the internet. I often wonder, when is my body my own? According to the National Center for Transgender Equality’s 2015 survey, almost half of the 28,000 transgender respondents were sexually assaulted at some point in their lives, and 9 percent were physically attacked because of their trans identity. This year at least 12 transgender women of color have been killed: Ava Le’Ray Barrin, Josie Berrios, Chayviss Reed, Kenne McFadden, Alphonza Watson, Jaquarrius Holland, Ciara McElveen, Chyna Gibson, Keke Collier, JoJo Striker, Mesha Caldwell and Jamie Lee Wounded Arrow. This is an emergency. And we must do something about it. Desire and violence run concurrently throughout my world. When I walk down the street and just go about my business, this is always on my mind. Consider the case of James Dixon, the man responsible for the 2013 death of Islan Nettles in Harlem. During his trial last year, Mr. Dixon confessed that he murdered her because “my pride is at stake.” Ms. Nettles was walking with several friends in Harlem when Mr. Dixon hit on her. He didn’t know that Ms. Nettles was transgender until his friends, who did know, began laughing at him. He beat her to death because of external pressure that conflicted with desires he couldn’t quite reconcile in his imagination. People are often ashamed that trans and gender-nonconforming bodies produce pleasure for them, and they’re also fearful that others might find out. This is similar to something the poet Claudia Rankine wrote about police violence: “Because white men can’t police their imagination, black people are dying.” Similarly, trans women and gender-nonconforming people of color are dying because people, especially cisgender men and women, cannot police their imaginations. Mr. Dixon later blamed Ms. Nettles for her death because he was “fooled by a transgender” and also humiliated by his friends. This is the world we live in. During a recent commute to Manhattan, thoughts about Ms. Nettles, male gazes and the weight of responsibility overpowered my music. About halfway through the ride, I paused and surveyed the people around me. A black mother and her child sat next to me. A white woman reading a book (who frequently looked over at me) sat in front of me. I wondered what they worry about during their daily commute. Do they worry about dying? About being beaten? I wondered if they’d intervene on my behalf should someone attack me on the train. Sadly, when trans and gender-nonconforming people experience violence at the intersections of race, class, gender and sexuality, we are often blamed for our deaths. Some of us live and thrive because we are desired; none of us should die because of that.