When I was a child in Springfield, Mass., I lived about a six-minute walk from a beautiful, well-maintained, outdoor public swimming pool just inside the eastern entrance to Forest Park, one of the largest urban parks in the country. To get to the pool, I had only to walk through my friend Adam’s backyard, cross Trafton Road, pass through the park’s gate, head toward the hockey rink and listen for the sound of happy children splashing in cold, blue, chlorine-y water. Yet I was never among those children. My friends and I used the park, all the time, for tennis and baseball and basketball and pickup football. But never for swimming. For that, we biked the quick mile to the Jewish Community Center (my non-Jewish friends had J.C.C. memberships, too). The public pool was used by our black and Puerto Rican peers — boys we played baseball or basketball with, but never swam with. We didn’t know it, but we were part of a long history of socially engineered swimming, a story of American public works that began with progressive hopes but ended in de facto segregation. It’s an unfortunate history, one we should fight to undo, so that we can reclaim public, integrated swimming as an American summertime ritual. America’s earliest public baths and pools, built around the turn of the 20th century, were supposed to provide hygiene as well as recreation for the urban poor and working classes. These pools were not racially segregated. They did, however, separate men from women. For example, New York City’s first municipal pool, opened in 1906 at West 60th Street, drew from the Irish and black neighborhoods that it bordered, but women swam three days a week, men the other four. In the 1930s, numerous pools were built with New Deal money, and these pools, too, welcomed blacks and whites alike, began to attract the middle class as well as the poor, and were more likely to allow men and women at the same time. A step forward — except that, with men and women swimming together, a sexualized racial panic roiled the waters. Cities like St. Louis and Washington officially segregated their pools, and cities like Pittsburgh saw frequent racial violence there as whites attempted to keep black swimmers away. But it was residential separation, not Jim Crow policies, that proved to be the most enduring enforcer of segregated swimming. In the 1960s, pools built through Great Society programs were often in isolated black neighborhoods. Meanwhile, whites fled to private swim clubs in the suburbs. Or to their backyards: In 1950, there were only 2,500 in-ground residential pools in the country, but by 1999 there were four million. My friends and I used private pools, in other words, because the white families we were friends with, good liberals all, used private pools. It had become the culture. The disappearance of urban swimming culture has been a huge loss for all of us in cities. It’s been more than a century since urbanites began to swim in pools rather than in rivers. For the first half of their history, these pools were low-cost, high-fun places to mix, socialize, see, be seen and cool off. It’s hard now to imagine how much delight our great-grandparents took in public swimming. A 1933 survey found that nearly 10 times as many people swam frequently as rode bicycles, and almost as many swam as went to the movies. And pool designers responded to an avid public: Whereas today a city is lucky to get a simple rectangle, the old pools had whimsy. In 1931, in Highland Park, Pittsburgh opened a complex with two pools, a waterfall and a sandy beach. Wilmington, Del., had a pool in the shape of a foot. Flint, Mich., had a pool with a sandy beach and a second-story veranda. The largest of the era, San Francisco’s Fleishhacker Pool, held 10,000 swimmers at a time and was patrolled by lifeguards in rowboats; a swimmer could loll on the sandy beach, stroll the poolside deck or sit on a grassy hill above. Smaller places got great pools, too. In Montpelier, Vt., the town pool was shaped like a saucer. Why? Why not. At their best, pools like these are still democratic spaces, leisure spaces for the masses, where anybody who knows how to swim, or is willing to stand in the shallow end, can have as much fun as an Olympic star. No expensive gear or uniforms needed. Thus it’s not a stretch to say, as the historian Jeff Wiltse does in his indispensable book “Contested Waters: A Social History of Swimming Pools,” that the “privatization of swimming pools during the second half of the 20th century degraded the quality of community life in America.” The end of a mixed, democratic urban swimming culture also cut many black people off from the opportunity to learn to swim, which is one reason that, according to a 2010 study, nearly 70 percent of African-American children can’t swim. So how can we bring urban swimming back? It won’t be easy. Many of the urban pools of the 20th century were built with federal dollars, coming from infrastructure programs like the Works Progress Administration in the 1930s or from federal antipoverty grants like those created during President Lyndon B. Johnson’s administration. It’s much more difficult, especially today, for cities to find the kind of cash needed to build, or staff, public pools. In theory, building public pools available to all Americans, of any race or class, should fit well with President Trump’s stated commitment to infrastructure spending. But the budget he released in May proposes that private investment, spurred by government incentives, will make up a good deal of the infrastructure spending targets over the next 10 years, and proposes cuts in the kind of direct government aid that could be set aside for urban pools. But even if there were a wave of sparkling public pools built across the land, it might be hard to fill them up with splashing children. Children of all economic classes are more likely to have their time scheduled during long summer days, at camps or enrichment programs. If they’re not, they are still more likely to have air conditioning, and thus not as desperate to cool off. There’s also a lingering perception that pools are a bit dingy, unsavory and unsafe, a perception born in the 1970s, when many pools, neglected by cities short on funds and staffing, did become rather seedy environments, places to get high or do a little business in the shadows. As pools got a bad rap, they depopulated, which made them even less safe. There remain some bright spots. New York City has more than 60 municipal pools, some of them old Depression-era gems, others restored, others newer. My adopted hometown, New Haven, has, like many cities, embraced a more economical water-park model, building a citywide network of “splash pads,” sprinkler parks that do an adequate job of cooling you off. But they provide nothing like the old midcentury poolside culture, and of course I can’t bring my children there to learn to swim. For that, I take them to the closest swimming pool, just at the end of my block, in a most generous neighbor’s backyard.