Late last month, in Jacksonville, Fla., Devonte Shipman, who is black, walked across the street. A white sheriff’s officer saw him, and about 20 minutes later, Mr. Shipman had been served a $62 fine for jaywalking and a $136 fine for “failing to provide I.D.” The sheriff’s officer even threatened to arrest Mr. Shipman, saying, “In the state of Florida, you have to have an I.D. card on you identifying who you are, or I can detain you for seven hours until I figure out who you are.” There were a few problems with this. First and foremost, failing to carry identification while walking is not a crime, even under Florida law. Florida Statute 322.15 clearly states that one needs to be carrying a license while driving — not while walking. Second, “jaywalking” is not a crime in Florida; it’s a noncriminal infraction. In the video Mr. Shipman took of the incident, another person clearly jaywalks behind him. And yet Mr. Shipman was stopped, and fined nearly $200 for two “crimes” that don’t exist. A week before this incident, Jeronimo Yanez, the officer who shot Philando Castile in July 2016, was acquitted of second-degree manslaughter. Castile, a licensed gun owner, was shot after being stopped for a broken taillight and informing Officer Yanez that he had a gun (as he was legally permitted to) and reaching for his driver’s license as directed. In effect, Castile was murdered for following directions. Americans, in general, respect the concept of “the law” and those who enforce it. And yet the law and the people tasked with enforcing it do not always reciprocate. In some cases, Americans can jaywalk or even blow marijuana smoke at a police officer, and receive no punishment whatsoever. In other cases, Americans like Mr. Shipman are stopped for violating laws that do not exist. And in still other cases, Americans like Philando Castile, who had been stopped more than 40 times in 13 years for minuscule law violations, are killed because they follow a police officer’s instructions. Frequently, these Americans are black. African-Americans are disproportionately arrested for jaywalking and other small-scale offenses nationwide. Sacramento police issued more than 200 tickets for jaywalking last year in the neighborhoods of North Sacramento and Del Paso Heights. While just 15 percent of residents of that area are African-American, black residents made up around 50 percent of those ticketed. In Urbana, Ill., the disparity was even more stark: From 2007 to 2011, 91 percent of those ticketed for jaywalking were black, in an area where just 16 percent of residents are African-American. The Department of Justice found that while African-Americans made up 67 percent of the population of Ferguson, Mo., between 2011 and 2013, they received 95 percent of “manner of walking in roadway” charges and 92 percent of “disturbing the peace” charges. In Minneapolis, the A.C.L.U. discovered that African-Americans were more than eight times more likely to be arrested for low-level offenses, like loitering or driving without proof of insurance, than white residents. The response to these incidents by other Americans — frequently, but not always, white Americans — is often “well, don’t break the law!” But it’s not about breaking the law, it’s about the enforcement of the law. For millions of Americans, laws can be safely ignored. Jaywalking is sometimes the easiest way to cross a road without sidewalks or where the crosswalk is far away. Speeding, though unsafe, happens when you’re late for work. And sometimes you forget to signal when driving into the grocery store parking lot. But for other Americans — black Americans — any of these simple decisions can result in arrest, fines or even death. If some people can ignore a law, and others can’t, that law is not being enforced fairly. And if some people can flout law enforcement and survive, and others obey it and die, law enforcement is not doing its job properly. The Constitution guarantees all Americans equal protection under the law. But clearly, it does not guarantee all Americans equal protection from the law. Mr. Shipman knew that, which is why he recorded his interactions with the sheriff’s officer and maintained an almost impossible level of politeness throughout. He knew, as I do, as most black people do, that when one is dealing with the police, one must be as meek and mild as possible. I did not know until I went to college that other people, often white people, never had to learn that lesson. I had friends in college who bragged about drunkenly screaming obscenities at police officers and suffering no consequences as a result. I marveled at them. Imagine being able to do that, I remember thinking. Imagine being able to do that and live.