Early on a sunny May morning in 1952, I answered the doorbell of our New York City apartment to find two huge, scary-looking men, wearing hats and raincoats and big black shoes. They were, it turned out, F.B.I. agents. I was 6½ years old. My father, the movie star John Garfield, had died suddenly at the age of 39 the week before. Ten thousand people had gathered outside Riverside Memorial Chapel in Manhattan, clamoring to pay their respects to him. My family was still in shock. I was paralyzed with fear when I saw those two men at our door. But my mother swiftly came to my rescue. “What do you want?” she demanded angrily, clutching me and my brother protectively. “We just want to take a look around, Mrs. Garfield,” one of the men said. “You want to look around?” my mother shot back. “What for? You already killed him! You got what you wanted, now get out of our lives!” Then she slammed the door. My father had been a Hollywood star, famous for playing tough guys, including alongside Lana Turner in “The Postman Always Rings Twice.” He was one of the first actors to set up his own production company, and his first independent film, “Body and Soul,” released in 1947, remains among the finest boxing films ever made. It was nominated for three Oscars and was a huge critical and commercial success. But in 1951 he was subpoenaed by the House Un-American Activities Committee. That committee’s work was a prelude to the notorious Senate investigations into Communists in the government led by Senator Joseph McCarthy and his counsel, Roy Cohn. My father was not a Communist, but he declined to name people who might have been. The experience ruined his career. Even before the House hearing, Hollywood movie studios had barred my father from performing in their films. He didn’t work for 18 months after he was first accused of being a member of the party. My father died of a heart attack. But we were all convinced that it was the witch hunt of the House committee that had killed him. My father was a great actor, but also a fervent patriot. He had tried to enlist in World War II but failed his physical. Instead, he found a way to contribute by organizing, with Bette Davis, a club in Los Angeles called the Hollywood Canteen to entertain troops. The canteen gave service members, many on their way to war, a chance to relax and the reassurance that they had the country’s support. He went on a number of tours in combat zones predating those of Bob Hope. The F.B.I. had been following my father for about a year before his death, shadowing him wherever he went, even when he paid a visit to the deathbed of his friend (and co-star) Canada Lee. Agents visited my school. They followed my mother to the grocery store. They tapped our phones. These actions were in every respect a true “witch hunt.” The committee hounded United States citizens, looking to prosecute and persecute anyone it considered a “leftist,” very often with scant proof. More frequently all it had was innuendo, insinuation and lies. Most of those blacklisted people weren’t famous like my father. They were teachers, writers, directors, painters, intellectuals; many, but not all of them, worked in creative fields. My father was never a member of the Communist Party, although my mother briefly was. He had learned his craft in the legendary Group Theater, some of whose members had been in the party. They were idealists searching for a way to help the poor and hungry, the unfortunates of our country. They had survived the Great Depression and took literally Emma Lazarus’s words inscribed on the Statue of Liberty: “Send these, the homeless, tempest-tost to me, I lift my lamp beside the golden door!” Both the House Un-American Activities Committee and Senator McCarthy’s committee were focused on hunting down as many “Reds” as they could, destroying reputations and careers along the way. Some of those people left the country. Others were able to work only under assumed names. And some, like my father, were hounded to death. So I cringe when I hear President Trump claim to be the victim of a “witch hunt” because of the F.B.I.’s investigation into Russian interference in one of our most vital rights: free elections. How ironic that Mr. Trump has adopted the phrase used to criticize the work of his friend and mentor, Roy Cohn. But this investigation is no witch hunt. It is an appropriate, responsible and intelligent response to a hostile act against the nation. And remember this, Mr. President: You still have your job, your family, your money. And your life.