This Week in Hate highlights hate crimes and harassment around the country since the election of President Trump. Two nights before the inauguration, Katherine Gonzalez Morgan was watching TV with her nine-year-old son when police showed up at her door. They had received an email saying there was a bomb at her address, they said. She and her family would have to leave immediately. Ms. Morgan lives with her husband, their son and her parents on a five-acre farm in an unincorporated area outside the town of Pace, in the Florida Panhandle. The police evacuated the Morgans and their nearest neighbors to a soccer complex nearby while they searched the farm. Ms. Morgan was worried that someone might have placed a bomb in the horse barn or one of the sheds on the property. Her son was terrified. She and her mother both have a form of muscular dystrophy, and both were still recovering from recent surgeries when they were forced to leave their home. About two hours later, the Morgans were able to return; the officers had found no bomb at the farm. The Morgans were one of three families in Florida, in three different cities hundreds of miles apart, whose addresses had been mentioned in a bomb threat emailed to a detective. The only connection police could find among the three was that all had the surname Gonzalez, which is Ms. Morgan’s parents’ name and her maiden name. Reports of threats and harassment, especially directed at people perceived to be immigrants, spiked after the election of President Trump, according to many advocacy groups. But a threat against three families with the same last name is unusual, even unique. Although two of the three Gonzalez families targeted are Latino, there’s no clear evidence that the crime was motivated by racism. In fact, more than six months later, no one knows who targeted the families, or why. The email that forced three families from their homes on January 18 read like a bizarre word problem. “Me and 2 of my gang associates have a total of 6 bombs,” it said. “We are setting them all off within the next hour. We also have a total of 1 pound of cocaine and 7 pounds of marijuana. If you come to all 3 of our houses within the next 45 minutes we will not set off ONE of the bombs, which is the one that will kill 4 police officers. Start is now, 6:57pm EST.” Then it listed Ms. Morgan’s address, another one 450 miles to the southeast in Kissimmee, Fla., and a third address in Sunrise, nearly 200 miles south of that. The email was sent to a detective at the police department in a fourth city, Ocala, using a disposable email address from a provider called Guerrillamail. Police in Ocala contacted police in Sunrise and sheriff’s offices serving Pace and Kissimmee, and officers from the local agencies sped to each address, arriving by 8 p.m. No bombs were found. Guerrillamail, which bills itself as an anti-spam tool, includes the IP address of the sender in the header information of each email as a way to discourage abuse. The Sunrise police investigated the IP address of the threatening email, but were unable to turn up any leads. A spokesperson for the department said he believed the IP address was in a foreign country. The crime appears to have been an example of a practice called swatting: A perpetrator makes a false report of a bomb or shooter at a victim’s address, with the goal of causing law enforcement officers, such as a SWAT team, to descend on the residence. Though no one knows exactly how the perpetrator found the Gonzalez families’ addresses, the rise of data brokers has made it easy to find someone’s address online. And swatting can be difficult to investigate and prosecute, since perpetrators can mask their identity and location. Eventually, authorities in Sunrise, Pace and Kissimmee all ended their investigations with no findings. The Ocala Police Department, which received the email, never opened an investigation because the addresses targeted were outside its jurisdiction. Police in Ocala notified the F.B.I. of the email, but a spokesperson for the bureau could not confirm or deny the existence of an investigation into the case. Meanwhile, for the three families involved, the effects of the experience lingered long after officers left. Evelyn Gonzalez of Sunrise, Fla., and her family were at her uncle’s house a few blocks away when they got the call from the police. Ms. Gonzalez was terrified. Her family was with her, but she was worried about her dogs, still in the house, and her neighbors. Before that night, Ms. Gonzalez often didn’t bother turning on the alarm system before leaving the house. Now she is thinking about getting security cameras. Something like this “changes your perspective,” she said. “It changes your life completely.” In Kissimmee, Ramon Gonzalez was relaxing at home with his family when he saw lights outside. When his wife opened the door to see what it was, a sheriff’s officer yelled, “Get out of the house!” Officers evacuated the family to a nearby church while they searched the house. Mr. Gonzalez’s wife, who asked that her first name not be used, was in her pajamas. The threat completely changed the way she views her house, she said. The feeling of security she used to have at home is gone now, all because “somebody decided to write an email with our address,” she said. “It’s not fair.” Initially, Ms. Morgan believed the threat against her home was motivated by racial prejudice. The farm, she said in March, “was our sanctuary, and some ignorant, racist idiot decided to harass people and picked our name out of a phone book.” Ms. Morgan describes her ethnic identity as complicated. Her maiden name, Gonzalez, comes from her grandfather, who was adopted from an orphanage in Mexico by a Mexican-American family. She grew up watching Spanish-language TV with him, but she also identifies closely with her Irish heritage. The Gonzalez families in Kissimmee and Sunrise identify as Latino. Between Election Day and the end of March, the Southern Poverty Law Center counted 1,863 incidents of hate or bias. Nearly 400 targeted immigrants or people perceived to be immigrants; 43 percent of those involved anti-Latino hate or harassment. More than 100 Jewish organizations received bomb threats in the first three months of this year; as many as 27 were threatened on January 18, the same day the Gonzalez families were targeted. Perhaps with those threats in mind, police asked the Gonzalez family in Kissimmee if they were Jewish. They are not, but waves of highly publicized threats can lead to copycats. “When there’s high level of media coverage with respect to a specific kind of crime, we often see a temporary spike in similar crimes by other groups or individuals,” said Anthony Roman, a security expert. Still, it’s not clear why someone chose to threaten the three Gonzalez families in Pace, Kissimmee and Sunrise out of thousands of people who share that surname around the country. The nature of the threat raises questions that, months later, no one can answer: Were all the families chosen at random? Was one of them picked out of personal animus, with the others added as decoys? Were all of them carefully selected based on some connection or commonality even they can’t discern? Because the perpetrator hasn’t been found, all of the families are forced to wonder if they were targeted personally, if the crime was somehow about them. Ms. Morgan now believes the threat might have been inspired by some of her Facebook posts. “I’m pretty vocal about not liking Trump and not liking right-wing politics in general,” she said. Each of the three families targeted in the threat includes someone named Katherine Gonzalez, a fact that, like many in the case, feels significant but could be simple coincidence. For a while after the threat, Ms. Morgan stopped posting on Facebook, afraid of being targeted again. Recently, however, she started posting again, particularly about the Republican health care bill, which she said would stop her from getting the coverage she needs for her health problems. “Some little idiot hiding behind their computer screen is not going to affect me,” she said. She’s grateful that no one was physically harmed, but wishes law enforcement had done more to investigate the threat. “This isn’t just a prank,” she said. She worries that the person who targeted her family may go on to threaten more people, or worse. “Whoever did this totally got away with it,” she said. “What are they going to do next?” For advice on removing personal information, such as addresses, from data broker sites, try these resources. If you have experienced, witnessed or read about a hate crime or incident of bias or harassment, you can use this form to send information about the incident to This Week in Hate and other partners in the Documenting Hate project. The form is not a report to law enforcement or any government agency. These resources may be helpful for people who have experienced harassment. If you witness harassment, here are some tips for responding. You can contact This Week in Hate at weekinhate@nytimes.com.