When President Trump tweeted a video of himself wrestling a man with the logo of CNN for a head, he unintentionally gave the American people a window into the psychology of online trolling. The White House has not confirmed the origin of the video, which the president tweeted on Sunday with the message “#FraudNewsCNN #FNN.” But a Reddit user going by “HanAssholeSolo,” who had also posted racist and anti-Semitic images, claimed credit for creating a GIF that formed the basis of the video. On Sunday, the user wrote on Reddit that he was “honored” to have his work appropriated by the president, whom he called “the MAGA EMPORER [sic] himself.” But on Tuesday, after reporters at CNN had figured out his identity and attempted to contact him, he posted an apology on Reddit. “I was trolling and posting things to get a reaction,” he wrote, “and never meant any of the hateful things I said in those posts. I would never support any kind of violence or actions against others simply for what they believe in, their religion, or the lifestyle they choose to have.” He added that the GIF “was not meant to be a call to violence against CNN or any other news affiliation” and that “I have the highest respect for the journalist community and they put their lives on the line every day with the jobs that they do in reporting the news.” In his telling, Solo allowed himself to be corrupted and corroded by the attention he got on Reddit, posting bigoted, violent images just “to get a reaction.” This isn’t an excuse — the person who says something racist “as a joke” (a common defense) still commits a racist act. But if Mr. Solo’s apology is genuine, then at least he’s capable of seeing that what he did was wrong, and perhaps he’s capable of changing. It is, of course, possible that the apology was less than heartfelt. Andrew Kacyznski at CNN wrote that the network had chosen not to reveal Solo’s real name because he had shown remorse, but reserved the right to do so in the future. This prompted accusations that the network had blackmailed Solo into apologizing with the threat of exposure, which CNN denied in a statement on Wednesday. Whatever you think of this sub-controversy, Solo wouldn’t be the first troll to apologize for his actions. His statement recalls that of the man who tormented the writer Lindy West by tweeting at her using an account named for her deceased father. After she wrote about the psychological impact of trolling, he apologized and admitted, “I think my anger towards you stems from your happiness with your own being. It offended me because it served to highlight my unhappiness with my own self.” He also donated to the cancer care facility that treated Ms. West’s father. This is the troll best-case scenario: He takes a hard look at himself (it’s usually a him), recognizes the reasons for his behavior, apologizes and makes amends. There’s also a troll worst-case scenario: A 2014 study found that trolling was associated with psychopathy, Machiavellianism (willingness to manipulate and deceive people) and, most strongly, with sadism. Another study, published earlier this month, also found a link between trolling, psychopathy and sadism. Psychopathic trolls use a “strategy of predicting and recognizing the emotional suffering of their victims, while abstaining from the experience of these negative emotions,” that study’s authors wrote. The universe of online trolls probably includes some out-and-out sadists, some empathetic people coping poorly with their emotions and a lot of people in between. Those toward the sadistic end of the spectrum might be people who would find a way to harm others with any tools put at their disposal. But others may well succumb to influence — after all, attention-seeking behavior only works if people give you positive attention. In a culture where posting CNN-head GIFs gets you ignored or reprimanded, most people will stop posting CNN-head GIFs. Unfortunately, we now live in a world where posting CNN-head GIFs gets you positive attention not just from other Redditors, but from the president of the United States. Put another way, you don’t need to be a sadist to become a troll in this environment. You just need a craving for praise, and a willingness to use racism, sexism and anti-Semitism in order to get it. And as we’re learning, this combination is all too common. Solo may have apologized and promised not to post racist or violent images again, but there are plenty more trolls where he came from. And as long as their activities get the thumbs-up from the president, there’s little reason for them to quit.