For almost a year, Connie Yates and Chris Gard have experienced every parent’s worst nightmare: They have watched their infant son move inexorably toward death. Charlie was born with an extremely rare genetic disorder called mitochondrial DNA depletion syndrome. It’s a complicated-sounding name, but the symptoms are straightforward and brutal. They include generalized weakness, the inability to eat and breathe, and, ultimately, death. Doctors at the Great Ormond Street Hospital in London have done everything possible to support Charlie from his birth, despite the steady progression of his underlying condition. When he was unable to eat and swallow, they began feeding him through a tube. When he was unable to breathe on his own they supported him through mechanical ventilation. But with no actual cure available, Charlie’s condition continued to deteriorate to the point where clinicians worried that continued use of life-prolonging therapies was no longer in his best interest, providing little benefit while protracting his suffering. Charlie’s parents searched desperately for a treatment that could prolong their baby’s life. They were heartened this winter when they found a neurologist at an American medical center who agreed to accept Charlie for an experimental treatment called nucleoside bypass therapy. Initial excitement cooled somewhat when the neurologist clarified that the oral treatment, at best, would provide a small chance of improvement in brain function, perhaps allowing Charlie to smile. Nevertheless, Charlie’s parents began a fundraising campaign to try to get him to the United States. Despite the Gards’ express desire to continue life-sustaining measures and to travel abroad, the Great Ormond Street Hospital went to the British courts in April seeking permission to remove life support. The court ruled in favor of the hospital, a ruling that was reaffirmed in May after an appeal by the parents to the British Supreme Court. “How can they do this to us?” Charlie’s mother screamed after the decision was handed down. Charlie’s parents appealed further to the European Court of Human Rights, which on June 27 concurred that the hospital could legally remove life-sustaining therapies. In the meantime, Charlie became something of a celebrity. Pope Francis said that he is “praying” for the parents “in the hope that their desire to accompany and care for their own child until the end will be respected” and the Vatican hospital has even offered to take Charlie in. President Trump weighed in on Monday, tweeting that he would be “delighted” to help Charlie, though it’s unclear to what extent he had been briefed on Charlie’s condition. Now the Gards are trapped: They face the absolute certainty that their child will die. At the same time, they are living with terrible uncertainty about how and when that will happen. Legally, the hospital can remove Charlie’s life-supporting therapies at any time. It shouldn’t — and not just because of the terrible optics of this tragic case. The Gards have not been shy about expressing what they want: They want their child to come to the United States for treatment. They’ve raised the money — more than 1.3 million pounds — to do it. So why should a hospital or a court override them? We are not immune to such complex situations here in the United States. Ultimately, our rules are similar to those in Britain. When a patient’s “best interest” is at stake, courts do have the ability to determine medical care against family wishes, as they did in a series of rulings between 1998 and 2003 in the case of Terri Schiavo. But, especially in pediatrics, one thing I have learned to celebrate about our otherwise troubled health-care system is that we make every effort to put families first and to keep courts and politics out of sensitive end-of-life decisions. I’ve never met the Gard family, but I feel like I know them. I have cared for countless families similar to theirs, including for a number of children with mitochondrial disorders, some with manifestations as severe as Charlie’s and some less so. Most of the children I care for as a pediatric palliative care specialist have complex chronic conditions with a huge degree of prognostic uncertainty. Often the diseases are poorly understood (mitochondrial disease was barely even on my radar when I was in medical school, having first been identified in 1988). Even when it is clear that an underlying condition is life-limiting, the trajectory is highly variable and dependent on decisions, such as the introduction or foregoing of supportive interventions, as has been the case with Charlie. As unpredictable as these diseases can be, what’s reliable is that with truly rare exceptions, parents are the best advocates for their children. This is a basic tenet of pediatric medicine. There are many instances in which doctors may feel that they themselves would make different choices, but that doesn’t mean that the parents’ choices aren’t in a child’s best interests. It’s impossible to know exactly what went on in that hospital in London that resulted in this particular situation becoming so contentious. I’ve spoken with two pediatricians at the Great Ormond Street Hospital with 35 years of experience between them. They can recall only one other medical case that ended up in court due to a disagreement between clinicians and parents. Having worked with families of children facing life-threatening illness for nearly 20 years now I can imagine how, despite best intentions on all sides, things might have unraveled given the intensity of these gut-wrenching choices. The Gards’ story is a reminder that it is our responsibility as clinicians, ideally with the help of palliative care professionals, to make sure the treatments we offer are in line with the goals and values of families whenever possible. Candid conversations with families can play an important role in preventing situations like the Gards’ from escalating to the point where courts and politics intervene in matters that should remain intimate. In the end, it doesn’t matter that Charlie Gard has become a household name. He is, ultimately, the child of Connie Yates and Chris Gard and they know best what is best for their terminally ill son. The hospital, despite its victories in court, should defer to Charlie’s parents.