Hey ladies! It’s ya bride here! I just wanted to thank you so so so much for agreeing to be in my bridal party. Before we get together for my “big day” (hate that term — I’d so much rather refer to the day I made assistant regional manager as my “big day”!). I’m droppin’ a quick note to say that I refuse to let the wedding-industrial complex turn this into a non-chill affair. I’m not, like, a normal bride, I’m a cool bride. To that end, I’ve streamlined the whole process into a few easy categories so that everyone’s on the same page. Let’s go! Bridesmaid dress. Since I don’t want you all going broke on bridesmaid’s dresses, I’m totally buying them for you. (I know!!) I’ve already ordered them all in a size 6, except for Lindsay — I got you a 3XL. That’s right, right? (Linds, real talk, I have no clue why you haven’t been featured in one of those “Body-Confident Babes Who Are Rocking It” columns yet — you’re a star, girl!) I can’t be clear enough here: If the dress doesn’t fit, you need to gain or lose weight to accommodate. They’re 100 percent nonreturnable. The dresses are super-cute, though! They’re upcycled Victorian-era maid smocks (so “Downton Abbey”-meets-“It”!) in a lovely light chartreuse color called Smog Factory. One small thing: You have to be super-careful not to get them dirty since I promised another bride that she can have them afterward for the animal shelter where she volunteers! Hair/makeup. I’ll have two hair and makeup artists on hand day-of. The guy who’s doing me styled Mariah Carey for the Grammys last year!! The woman who’s doing you comes highly recommended on TaskRabbit. She doesn’t have a website or a working phone, but I have a good feeling. Since I’m taking care of everything on the wedding day, I need you all to hit a salon within the next 48 hours and get me three to five options for your look. (Please keep in mind your unconventional face shape, Steph!) D.I.Y. help. Since I refuse to buy into society’s demands about what a “perfect” wedding looks like, we’re going to D.I.Y. this thing! Crafts! Bonding! So fun!! All I need you to do is carve out two nights a week until the wedding to help. I’ll send you each a supplies list, and to make sure the cost distribution is fair, please send me a confidential email stating how much you earn — tax forms or pay stubs are fine. Also, there will be pizza! (Please bring cash for pizza.) One last thing: If you’re sensitive to electric currents, it’s imperative that you let me know immediately. We’ll be attempting a gold-plating process that requires all involved to have a hearty immune system. Getting to know one another. Since all 16 of you are from different chapters in my life, I’m going to have several mandatory events for you all to become B.F.F.s before the wedding. (Of course, you should refrain from becoming closer to one another than you are to me; I trust you to use your own discretion, but I’ll be watching.) Drinking/eating at the wedding. Just don’t! It’s that simple! Ha-ha. (But really, if you do, I will absolutely lose it. lolololol!) Flirting with groomsmen. Again: Just don’t! It’s that simple! Ha-ha-ha. (But seriously, I will tear my hair out and eat it. HA-HA-HA!!!!!) Speeches. I’ll write them out and send them over at least two days before the event. Please make sure to have them memorized completely. If you want to hire someone to read your speech to you line by line over a discreet earpiece, I’m happy to help coordinate. My wedding planner can get us a package deal and then you can just pay me back whenever (four, six weeks max. I don’t want this to become a thing). Bouquet toss. I’m not doing that. It’s so sexist and gross and I’m sure you’ll all probably meet someone to maybe marry one day! (And if you don’t, that’s totally cool and normal, too.) That’s it! (Well, except for cleanup, which I’ll address in a second email. Just know you’ll need two change of clothes, a mop, a bucket and a super-posi attitude!!) Can’t wait to celebrate with you all. SO FUN!!!!