If the halting, messy debate over legislation to overhaul health care has taught us anything so far, it’s that when it comes to health care, Republicans don’t know what they want, much less how to get it. After years of campaigning on the promise of repealing the Affordable Care Act, when it finally came time to act, Republicans put together a plan that looks like a stingier, skimpier version of Obamacare in the individual market, plus a rollback of the law’s Medicaid expansion (delayed until after the next presidential election — long enough that it might not happen). When asked about the status of the health care bill this week, Senator Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, responded, “I didn’t expect Donald Trump to win, I think most of my colleagues didn’t, so we didn’t expect to be in this situation.” In short, Republicans didn’t plan on having to follow through on their promises. Democrats, on the other hand, share a distinct vision of robust universal coverage guaranteed by the government and paid for by a combination of delivery-system efficiencies and higher taxes. What Republicans need, then, is a set of guiding principles — a health care vision that should work from the ground up, that imagines a more affordable and more effective system, one that’s fairer and more focused. For starters, it would mean giving up on comprehensive universal coverage. Otherwise, Republicans will just end up bargaining on the terms set by Democrats, as they are now. One might reasonably object that Republicans have already given up on that goal, based on their own plans, which would disrupt coverage for millions in the first year alone and result in far fewer people insured in the long run. The problem for Republicans is that they have not yet backed away from universal coverage rhetorically. Senior Republicans still criticize Obamacare for covering too few people. This disconnect between what Republicans say and what they are willing to do has kept the party from moving in more productive directions. Which brings us to a second principle: unification, not fragmentation. For decades, the health care system has been broken into several distinct layers: Medicare, Medicaid and employer-provided coverage. The first two are paid for directly by the government. The third is subsidized implicitly through the tax code, which does not tax health benefits provided by employers as income. This tax break is the original sin of the United States health care system. Worth more than $250 billion annually, it has enormously distorted the market, creating an incentive for employers to provide ever-more-generous insurance while insulating individuals from the true cost of care. It discourages job switching and entrepreneurship, and offers an unfair advantage to the comfortably employed. Medicare, meanwhile, offers a huge system of federal benefits to older Americans that typically run far beyond what most have paid in. Its introduction was associated with explosive growth in hospital-costs inflation during the 1970s. Rather than overhauling this fragmented system, both Obamacare and the Senate bill leave its distortions largely in place. Obamacare nibbled at its edges by paring back Medicare to finance new coverage and by applying a tax to high-cost health insurance plans provided by employers. But President Barack Obama delayed that tax until 2020; the Senate legislation would delay it until 2026, suggesting it may never take effect at all. The result is an unequal system in which health insurance is understood more as a way of prepaying for medical care than as a protection from financial risk. That’s where the third principle comes in: Health coverage is not the same as health care. Instead, it is a financial product, a backstop against financial ruin. Health care policy should treat it as one. There is some question about how much programs like Medicaid contribute to measurable physical health outcomes, but there is no arguing that it effectively insulates beneficiaries from financial shocks. Health care policy that treated insurance as a hedge against financial shock could relieve one of the most salient worries of the middle class — that chance might curse them with unaffordably high medical expenses. For noncatastrophic, nonemergency medical expenses, Republicans ought to promote affordability rather than subsidies. All layers of the nation’s health care system are subsidized either directly or implicitly, and the subsidies shield individuals from the costs of their decisions and create incentives for providers to deliver more care rather than better care. Republicans should look for ways to limit cost increases directly. One way to do this is to encourage supply-side innovations in addition to demand-side reforms. The tangle of regulations governing health care can make it difficult for providers to respond to market signals and innovate. Doctor-owned hospitals are restricted by law, for example, and certificate-of-need requirements force medical providers to obtain licenses in a process that effectively requires them to ask permission from competitors to expand. Finally, Republicans should always focus government assistance on the poorest and sickest: This should be obvious, and yet it is not. Our system subsidizes workers with six-figure salaries and wealthy retirees while sidelining the poor and the sick in Medicaid, a system that many doctors won’t participate in because of low reimbursement rates. No one starting from scratch would design a system that looks like this. And while starting from scratch is not possible, that is, in essence, what a Republican vision should seek to do. This might mean reforming Medicaid, or creating a program with a similar goal of aiding the poor and the sick, but also seeking to make it more effective for those it covers. It might mean widely expanding health savings accounts or a broader system of catastrophic health insurance. It might mean seeking to limit the price-distorting power of hospital monopolies. It would almost certainly mean substantial reforms to both Medicare and the tax treatment of employer-sponsored health insurance. Hopefully, it would mean pursuing ideas that no one has thought of yet. Republicans should have no illusions: Selling this vision would take a significant investment of time, creativity and study, policy entrepreneurship and some difficult political and legislative choices. It would require patience and political salesmanship. And it would not result in an immediately popular bill that could easily pass in the Senate with 51 Republican votes this summer. In the short term, it would mean retreat. But over time it would distinguish Republicans from their Democratic rivals and give them a positive, productive policy pitch to run on, while giving voters better choices for health care. It would also, not incidentally, have the advantage of improving the nation’s health care system.