President Trump claimed this month on Twitter that the news media was “working hard” to convince people he “should not use social media.” But it was precisely his knack for social media, he implied, that helped win him the presidency. Is this true? If so, why might Mr. Trump be politically effective on Twitter? To better understand how political discourse works on Twitter, we recently analyzed more than half a million public tweets on three political topics — same-sex marriage, gun control and climate change — in the year leading up to the 2016 election. Our research, which was published this month in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, helps explain why certain morally charged content goes “viral” and produces political “echo chambers” online. In a subsequent analysis of Donald Trump’s and Hillary Clinton’s Twitter accounts, we found evidence that Mr. Trump benefited from the deployment of precisely this sort of morally charged content in a way that Mrs. Clinton did not. In recent years, psychologists have theorized that moral emotions motivate action and unite communities. A moral emotion is something like hate or hope — an emotion that features normative judgment and affective mood. In contrast, a non-moral emotion is something like fear or love, and a non-emotional moral concept is something like “injustice” or “fairness.” In light of this work, it is not surprising that online discussions about political topics often involve passionate language and moral outrage. We chose to test how moral and emotional concepts spread by studying online social networks. Given Twitter’s prominent role in political life, we decided to look at political discourse there, analyzing the retweet rate — the primary way Twitter users disseminate messages across their social network. First we created a dictionary of moral and emotional language so we could measure the number of these words in each tweet. Then we looked at the retweet rate for half a million public tweets on same-sex marriage, gun control and climate change. For all three political topics, we found that the addition of every moral-emotional word in a tweet was associated with a 20 percent increase in the retweet rate, compared to a tweet with no such language. Twitter messages that were both moralized and infused with emotion were much more likely to spread — a pattern we call “moral contagion.” (Purely emotional and purely moral language also helped with retweets. But moral-emotional language packed the strongest punch.) We also found that moral contagion was not necessarily a matter of moral outrage: Negative moral emotions were dominant in discussions of climate change and gun control, but positive moral emotions dominated the discussion of same-sex marriage. We were also interested in whether moral contagion spread indiscriminately through Twitter or, as we suspected, occurred within echo chambers of like-minded individuals. To investigate this question, we estimated the political ideology of Twitter users. We did this by using an algorithm that tracked which political accounts each user followed. People who followed conservative politicians were assumed to be more conservative; people who followed liberals were assumed to be more liberal. Previous research has shown that this algorithm is remarkably accurate, and was even able to predict the voting patterns of members of Congress based only on their Twitter accounts. As we suspected, moral contagion was much more pronounced within ideological group boundaries than between them. Liberals were more likely to share moral-emotional messages from liberals, and conservatives were more likely to share moral-emotional messages from conservatives. Although it was not within the scope of our original study, given the role that Twitter played in the presidential campaign, we analyzed Mr. Trump’s and Mrs. Clinton’s Twitter accounts in the six months before the election. We found that Mr. Trump benefited by using moral-emotional language (a 15 percent increase in retweets) but Mrs. Clinton did not. We speculated that this difference might be a result of gender. To get a better handle on this issue, we analyzed the Twitter accounts of all 100 United States senators. To our surprise, we found no gender differences: The Twitter messages from female and male senators both benefited from the use of moral-emotional language. But we did find a difference between political parties: Republican senators benefited more from using moral-emotional language than Democratic senators did. Similarly, when we reanalyzed our original research on those half a million public tweets, we found a slightly stronger echo-chamber effect among conservatives than liberals. So it seems that Mr. Trump may be no better than the average person in leveraging the force of moral emotions on social media. Everyone — save for Mrs. Clinton, that is — appears to benefit from it.