My mom and I had routines. We walked everywhere — to the grocery store, to the bus stop for doctor’s appointments and to visit family, and to my school each morning. My favorites were our walks through Lincoln Commons, commonly referred to as Lincoln Park, in our hometown, Malden, Mass., where we’d sit and tell stories underneath our favorite tree. Before it became a park, Lincoln was the site of an elementary school. A tree had grown inside the school, and the city was planning to demolish the building along with the tree until environmental activists fought to save it. The school was torn down carefully to preserve the tree, and the park was built around it. Our walks were short, often truncated by pauses, because my mom had Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, a connective tissue disorder that often causes breaks, dislocations and other injuries, and can also cause chronic pain and difficulty walking and standing. Our life was built around my mom’s disabilities; she also had a visual impairment, which was why she couldn’t drive and we walked everywhere. It wasn’t long before we learned that I am also disabled, inheriting some of my conditions from my mom. When I couldn’t walk along a balance beam in preschool, my mom started getting medical professionals involved. She became my biggest disability advocate and champion, getting me set up with school support services, occupational and physical therapy, and a therapist I could talk to about the difficulties of being a disabled kid. Like every other child, I asked questions: “Why can’t you drive a car?” “Will I be able to drive?” “How come I have trouble walking up the stairs and my best friend doesn’t?” My mom helped me navigate the early years smoothly, and even when we didn’t have all the answers — audiologists were continually confused about my trouble understanding speech, which we later learned was sensory processing disorder, because I passed every hearing test easily — my mom figured out how to accommodate my needs. We didn’t know at first exactly why I had trouble walking up the stairs, but my mom was happy to hold my arm as I ascended each step two feet at a time so that I wouldn’t fall. She was my first role model for what a disabled adult looks like. We didn’t use the words accessibility and accommodations, but I learned what they were from firsthand experience. We took public transportation everywhere, and when we occasionally needed to go off the grid, my grandparents and my aunt stepped in as chauffeurs. My mom didn’t do a lot of cooking that required standing for long periods of time, so my childhood was marked by our easy sit-down meals and occasional takeout — and subsequent arguments about whether to get Chinese food or Nana’s pizza. When we went outside in the winter, she had to bundle up because of complications from Raynaud’s phenomenon, and usually had to dart back into the house to warm up every 10 minutes or so. Most important, she was living proof that disabled adults exist and that they live life just like nondisabled adults do, even if it means doing certain things a little differently. After my mom died, when I was 11, I didn’t just lose my best friend. I also lost my first disabled role model, someone whom I could turn to for advice as I got older about dating, college, work and living on my own with a disability. I could ask adults about choosing a college, how to advance in a career and what to look for in my first apartment, but my nondisabled mentors didn’t have to think about accessibility or accommodations, or the havoc that a constant physical hustle and lack of sleep can wreak on my body. After my mom’s death, my dad helped me navigate my severe digestive issues, which I inherited from him. Luckily, I met other role models who could help me along the way. As a senior in college, my career-prep professor, Leah, who has chronic fatigue syndrome, understood the concerns and fears I had about my post-grad life. She was happy to guide me through concerns about balancing school, work and health; helped me with my applications to graduate school; and asked me necessary questions about my course load, accessible housing near campus and how easy the commute would be for me. In graduate school I met Lissa, a professor in my graduate program who has multiple sclerosis. I have asked her questions I couldn’t ask most professors about how to excel in my career with a disability. Just as in the L.G.B.T.Q. community, which I’m also a part of as a queer woman, finding camaraderie with other disabled people means creating a system of found family, people tied together by their identities and experiences. For those who don’t have the good fortune of a support system, there are mentorship programs. Nonprofit organizations like the Autistic Self Advocacy Network serve as a way for disabled people to meet one another; the Youth Leadership Forum is a mentorship program in Massachusetts and other states. There are national and local opportunities for mentorship, for specific conditions and for disability generally. Conferences and other events, like the Abilities Expo, are also places to find disabled community. At Westfield State University in Massachusetts, where I went for my bachelor’s degree, we had a social support group for students with disabilities. I chose not to opt in — but I found a vast majority of my friends in this social circle anyway and wound up creating a found family of disabled people on campus. That sense of found family was important not only for maintaining my disability pride, which became harder to hold onto after I lost my mom as a major role model, but also for questions I have about my life. It is critical for disabled people to find a sense of community. Disability is the only marginalized identity that anyone can enter at any time; one in 20 Americans is disabled, but we’re often so disenfranchised that our rights are an afterthought (the Americans With Disabilities Act became law only in 1990). Our strength comes from the relationships with other disabled people that we create, whether these are online or in person, and the lifelong mentorship that these relationships foster. My mom was the first disabled adult in my life, but not the last. She taught me that I’m strong and capable, like a tree that grew inside an elementary school and demanded to become a part of the world. Everyone should be so lucky. And with the right guidance and access to others willing to help, many people with disabilities can.