On July 2, 1937, Amelia Earhart and her navigator, Fred Noonan, vanished over the Pacific Ocean. Neither has ever been found. Before her disappearance, Earhart cabled frequent dispatches serializing her flight around the world for the New York Herald Tribune, abridged below. HONOLULU, March 18 — Making today’s landing was even more delightful than my first view of California’s shoreline. After all, it would require ingenuity to miss the continent which I was aiming for then. Hawaii, however, is a much smaller mark and I knew only too well how easily the islands could be missed. Credit for finding them belongs to my navigators Harry Manning and Fred Noonan. They divided activities in Electra’s improvised “chart-room,” Manning working the radio for bearings and communications and Noonan occupying himself chiefly with taking sights. Together they are a great team of navigators. Manning proved himself as at home above the oceans as he is on its surface and to Noonan, a veteran of many trans-Pacific air crossings for Pan-American Airways, this is, as he says, “just another job.” For the work done the airplane and I are grateful to them both. Yesterday at 4:37 we left Oakland. We made 2,400 miles in 15 hours and 48 minutes, exactly five minutes less than the time estimated in advance flight calculations. By the way, among the first messages which reached me at Honolulu was one from my husband berating me for slipping up on my schedule. “Please try to be more exact,” he wired. With 947 gallons of fuel aboard Electra [Earhart’s airplane] had a heavy load to raise from the wet field at Oakland. Paul Mantz [her co-pilot] and I had carefully worked out the piloting technique for that start. It was a team play straight off, each with his job, I at the controls, Paul handling the throttles and the retractable landing gear. ... Once aloft I settled down. Engines have human attributes. They usually respond to kindly treatment. With a long, long grinding before them I shall try to give mine the least possible punishment. If, at any time, it is necessary to call on them to put forth their all I believe they will respond. HONOLULU, March 19 — We will not take off tonight for Howland Island. That old bugaboo phrase of aviation “weather permitting” caught up with us again. ... If one has to wait, in all the world there is no more pleasant place to do the waiting than Hawaii. Again, as before my 1935 Pacific solo, I am ensconced in this lovely Waikiki beach home of Chrisholmes. Six hours sleep, topped off by luxurious sunbathing on Lanai looking out through cocoanut palms already has made me contentedly rested and the quantity of pineapple juice I have consumed is outrageous. What is more important, while its crew stores up energy, my Electra, under the watchful eye of Paul Mantz, is being checked and double-checked. It is altogether as fit as can be, doubtless as eager as we are to keep going westward. RETURNING FROM LUKE FIELD VIA AUTOMOBILE TO HONOLULU, March 20, 7:30 a.m. — It’s amazing how much can happen one dawn. Instead of being 150 miles en route to Howland Island by airplane, the crew of our Lockheed Electra in four hours will be taking a steamer back to the mainland. The airplane which brought us here so gallantly is being dismantled by efficient Army mechanics for shipment to the Lockheed factory at Burbank, Calif. Her landing gear was wiped off and one wing damaged. Fortunately, the precious engines were not hurt nor the body itself. As for the crew, only our spirits were bruised when an exploding tire brought about the crash. By good fortune, Harry Manning, Fred Noonan and I emerged from those strenuous few seconds without a scratch. But not so the plane. My pet, as indicated, was considerably banged up. BURBANK, Calif., March 26 — “Has the accident shaken your confidence?” That question has been asked me several times today. The answer is very clear in my mind. Nothing happened to change my attitude toward the original project. Instead I feel better about the ship itself than I ever have, and I am more eager than ever to fly again. In pioneer flying, one has to take the rough with the smooth. The accident was just “one of those things.” MIAMI, Fla., May 30 — For all practical purposes, and disregarding Mr. Einstein, the world measures the same distance west to east as from east to west on any given route. In the middle of March last I started westward from Oakland, Calif., on what was to be a round the world flight as near the Equator as possible. That attempt ended after a 2,400-mile trip across the Pacific with an accident at Honolulu. Now, seventy days later, my Electra plane is fit once more to fly. She and I hope to cover the 28,000 miles originally planned, but heading into dawns instead of sunsets. PARAMARIBO, Dutch Guinea, June 4 — We were welcomed by Commissar Wempe, Captain Sluyter, in command of troops; James Lawton, American Consul at Paramaribo, and by several others who had come out from town. Soldiers stood by to pump gasoline from drums and guard the plane. Coffee, orange juice and sandwiches were ready for hot and starving flyers. Never did I have better service anywhere. After the tanks had been refilled and the propellers greased the plane was taken down. It was embarked on the railroad which we had followed for hours and run in to Paramaribo. Dogs, chickens and goats moved off the track at our approach. Women carrying baskets of fruit on their heads came to the car when we stopped. DAKAR, French East Africa, June 8 —  Unless conditions forbid it we will leave Dakar tomorrow or Thursday in the direction of Niamey and Fort Lamy. We landed at St.-Louis du Sénégal because the visibility was poor and nightfall was approaching, but flew here today. The worst conditions encountered were in the notorious pitch pot region, off Brazil. This is the third continent of the journey. It leaves two more continents before us, Asia, and Australia. KHARTOUM, June 13 —  I arrived here at 8:15 a.m. Greenwich mean time today after a flight of 500 miles from El Fasha, Sudan. So much of the territory covered in Africa looks like the United States southwest that I must pinch myself to realize my whereabouts. Some of the country is arid, rough terrain and some is mountainous. There are no good highways, and the roads apparently are nearly all trails, pitted and unpaved. The villages are also very different. They are generally curious irregular formations not laid out in squares. I have seen many large white birds on my flight, probably pelicans flying near the water. KARACHI, June 16 — Two seas were crossed yesterday. Leaving Assab the course lay over the Red Sea along the coast of Arabia then across the Persian Gulf from Ras-Al-Hadd to Gwadar. From Gwadar we skirted the Persian coast to India. Surely, some of the wastelands of the world bordered our route. I have never seen a more desolate section than the Arabian shore. Low sand hills reached almost to the water’s edge, or jagged mountains tower. Part of the time we flew inland so we could see the tip of tilted hills and the dry river canyons. LAE, New Guinea, July 1 — Fred Noonan and I have worked very hard the last two days repacking the plane and eliminating everything that is not essential. We have even discarded as much personal property as we can decently get along without. Henceforth, we propose to travel lighter than ever before. I have retained, only one brief case, in which are my papers as well as my extra clothing and tooth brush. All Fred Noonan has is a small tin case which he picked up in Africa. I notice it still rattles, so it cannot be packed very full. I wish we could stay here peacefully and get to know something of the country. ... New Guinea is a country subject to earthquakes, and I was told that a quake only a year ago shifted several acres of land into a bay forming the present tiny harbor. They told us that much of the land is really only silt, held together by tangled undergrowth. Along the rivers pieces of land some times break off and as islands float hundreds of miles to sea before disintegrating. Now and then animals are trapped on them. Then, of course, there is the ever present jungle to lure one into exploring. Like the desert or the sea it has a strange fascination for some hardy souls. We shall try to get off tomorrow, though now we cannot be home by the Fourth of July, as we had hoped.