This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Susan Collins, the Maine Republican, got straight to the point in describing the new Senate health care bill: “Still deep cuts to Medicaid in Senate bill. Will vote no,” she tweeted yesterday. “Ready to work w/ GOP & Dem colleagues to fix flaws in ACA.” Rob Portman, the Ohio Republican and another potential swing vote, was less straightforward. “I opposed the last draft of the Senate health proposal because I had concerns about the measure’s Medicaid policies,” Portman said in a statement. Later, he followed up saying that he was undecided about whether he would support this bill. Here’s the problem for Portman: Collins is right. The Medicaid policies are virtually identical between the revised Senate bill and the previous bill. If Portman opposed the last bill because of how it would harm Medicaid recipients — and he did — he would logically need to oppose this one, too. As Jeff Young of HuffPost wrote: “Portman going with ‘undecided’ but, again, the Medicaid policies in the bill are THE SAME as in the old bill.” Broadening the point beyond Portman, Dylan Scott of Vox noted that the only way for Senate Republicans to pass a version of this bill is to “ignore everything they’ve said” about their health care priorities. This new bill does have some substantially different details, including fewer tax cuts for the affluent. But it still has large tax cuts for the affluent, as Paul Krugman explains. And the core of the bill remains big cuts in federal spending on medical care for the poor, middle class, sick, disabled and elderly. As a result, the main effect of this bill is the same as the Senate’s and House’s earlier versions: It would damage the quality of health care for millions of people. As Larry Levitt, an expert at the Kaiser Family Foundation, noted yesterday, the new bill will likely lead to a similarly sharp increase in the uninsured as the previous bills would have. Unfortunately, Senate Republican leaders are following the same “Upton strategy” that House leaders did. They are hoping that late, modest changes to the bill will distract from the bill’s dominant features. The question now is whether there are at least two more Republicans like Collins, willing to buck their party’s leaders for the sake of principle. That would be enough to defeat the bill.