On the morning of July 14, 1977, my dad stood on the sidewalk at Broadway and 98th Street staring through the shattered windows of his store, Radio Clinic. A lightning bolt had led to a cascading power failure that had plunged New York City into darkness. By the time the power came back on, 25 hours later, more than 1,600 stores had been looted. With its shelves of stereo equipment, televisions, boomboxes (remember those?) and other electronics, Radio Clinic had been an irresistible target. The Upper West Side was one of the hardest hit sections of Manhattan, with 61 stores looted between 63rd and 110th Street. Looters tore off iron security gates by hand, or with chains attached to cars. New Yorkers feared that the blackout was proof that the social order and perhaps the city itself was in an irreversible decline. Many small-business owners, and even more residents, decided it was time to get out. While my dad and his employees cleaned up the store, neighbors streamed in to ask if Radio Clinic was shutting down, too. The store had been on the block since 1934, when my grandfather set up shop and sat in the storefront window in a white lab coat fixing broken radios. My dad had worked there since he was a teenager. I was only 11, but I already spent my weekends there sticking prices on film and demonstrating the new Atari arcade game to people as they passed by the store. My dad had no intention of abandoning Radio Clinic. So finally he put up a sign in one of the few remaining windows. Thick black marker on white poster board read: “WE ARE STAYING.” Neighbors saw the sign and came in offering thanks, flowers and hugs. They were relieved that this business was not giving up. The sign also drew reporters’ attention. “I’m responsible for 25 families — the families of people that work for me,” my dad told a Time magazine reporter. “What’s going to happen to them if I pull out? As bad as I got hit, there are other guys that got wiped out. What’s going to happen if they can’t reopen? What can the city and the government do to keep people like us from leaving these neighborhoods?” My dad knew he needed help from the city to rebuild his business. Just two years earlier, New York had been on the verge of bankruptcy, and it wasn’t too big a leap to think it would now put some muscle into keeping the looted businesses from boarding up their windows, if only to stabilize neighborhoods (and tax revenues). My dad began making the wearying rounds of city agencies. He was full of ideas on how the city could help looted businesses, from offering interest-free loans to waiving July taxes. At each meeting, he was offered plenty of sympathy. But in the end he received very minimal financial aid — $1,800 — an amount so negligible he considered it only “slightly better than a kick in the head.” He was so frustrated he wrote his own Op-Ed for this newspaper about the experience. As far as my dad was concerned, the city had failed to protect its small businesses during the blackout, and now it was abandoning them in its aftermath. He managed to keep the store afloat, however, eventually renaming it R.C.I. A few years later, it turned out that his vote of confidence in the city had been prescient. By the 1980s, the Upper West Side was experiencing a real estate boom and was gentrifying quickly. But the small businesses like my dad’s that anchored the neighborhood were now victims of their own success. As property values went up, storefront rents became untenable. “Lost our lease” signs popped up all over. My dad got involved in lobbying for rent stabilization for small businesses. Mayor Ed Koch acknowledged that rents were a problem but opposed any rent controls. He felt confident that the free market was the most effective mechanism for determining what type of store a neighborhood needed. Mayor after mayor, City Hall never decided that small businesses were in the city’s public interest. As the rents continued to rise through the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s, small family-owned stores continued to close. It was increasingly clear that one thing the market couldn’t bear was small businesses. My dad retired in 2006. R.C.I. hung on until 2014, when it, too, finally closed. In 1977 my dad asked a reporter what the city could do to keep stores like his in business. In the 40 years since, the city has been indifferent to this question. As a result, many neighborhood stores, in business at the same locations for decades, are gone forever, replaced by a revolving cast of chain stores that do not sink deep roots into the neighborhoods they serve. The next time the city is down, facing hard times, will there be anyone left who will put up a sign that says “WE ARE STAYING”? “What can the city and the government do to keep people like us from leaving these neighborhoods?” It is still a good question.