In recent weeks, countless survivors of sexual violence have called, written and visited Betsy DeVos, the Secretary of Education, to voice their concern about the potential rollback of Title IX protections. Many people are aware that Title IX is a civil rights law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex within educational settings. Lesser known are the protections and resources the law guarantees to LGBTQ survivors of sexual violence. Under President Obama, the Department of Education sought to make clear exactly how Title IX applies to the lives of LGBTQ people who have experienced sexual violence — something we welcomed, given the high incidence of such violence against people in our communities. In 2011, the administration released what is now known as the “Dear Colleague Letter,” clarifying that under Title IX sexual violence is a form of sexual harassment as it creates a hostile environment for students. It also stated that universities should use a “preponderance of evidence” standard rather than the higher “clear and convincing” evidence standard for evaluating sexual assault complaints and determining disciplinary action. Three years later, the Department of Education released a guidance document to further clarify the Dear Colleague Letter. The document states that universities must “investigate and resolve allegations of sexual violence involving parties of the same sex using procedures and standards that it uses in all complaints involving sexual violence.” It also explains that universities must respond to discrimination on the basis of gender identity. Finally, the document suggests that universities should ensure that staff who handle sexual violence reports and work with survivors receive appropriate training on working with LGBTQ students. The guidance document and the Dear Colleague Letter are not law, but rather clarify how the Obama administration intrepreted the responsibilities of universities and schools under Title IX. As Secretary of Education, Betsy DeVos has the ability to uphold these guidance documents and ensure that LGBTQ survivors of sexual violence have a safe way to seek justice. Unfortunately, she also has the ability to rescind the Dear Colleague Letter and do away with the prepoderance of evidence standard — moves that she appears to be considering. That would be a travesty for all sexual assault survivors, but especially for LGBTQ survivors, who often cannot get justice in the traditional criminal justice system. Through my work with the National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, I have seen up close the many struggles LGBTQ survivors of violence experience when reporting to police or dealing with a court system that is biased against them. Our reports on violence against LGBTQ people have consistently shown that when LGBTQ survivors report to police they can be met with indifference and hostility, or worse, physical and sexual violence. Furthermore, LGBTQ survivors of sexual violence are often subjected to voyeuristic and traumatic questioning in the court system, stemming from ignorance about LGBTQ relationships and stereotypes about our sex lives. The requirement underscored in the Dear Colleague Letter that universities respond to reports of sexual violence and have fair disciplinary procedures using a preponderance of evidence standard creates a vital alternative for LGBTQ students who cannot get justice through the criminal system. It allows us to reimagine what justice might look like for students, to truly meet survivors’ needs, and to create pathways of accountability that heal rather than perpetuate harm. However, in order for students, LGBTQ and otherwise, to want to come forward and tell their stories, they must be able to trust their universities to support them and offer them fair and transparent disciplinary procedures. As it stands now, this just isn’t the reality. According to the Association of American Universities Campus Climate Survey on Sexual Assault and Sexual Misconduct, transgender and gender non-conforming students are less likely than other students to believe that the university will protect survivors’ safety and that the university will do anything in response to reports of violence. Betsy DeVos needs to listen to survivors, particularly those survivors who traditionally have been left out of the conversations around sexual violence. Rather than undermining the protections already in place, she should build on them to create systems of care and accountability for all survivors. She should encourage universities in creating and expanding educational programs about consent, boundaries and healthy sex that are inclusive of LGBTQ students. Finally, she should not allow those who actively work to discount the voices of survivors to take precedence in determining university responses to sexual violence. As the Secretary of Education, it is her responsibility to ensure that universities are meeting the needs of students who have experienced sexual violence, especially those who are most marginalized. It takes courage to share one’s story of sexual violence in hopes that those in power will listen. I hope that survivors have not shared their stories in vain.