This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Across the political spectrum, just about everyone seems to be in favor of expanding vocational education. The idea makes a lot of sense, too. A four-year college degree should not be the only path to the middle class. Students should also be able to learn technical skills that lead to good-paying, blue-collar jobs. But I’m worried that the idea of vocational education has become so popular — backed by Presidents Trump and Obama — that its advocates have not thought through the potential downsides. Those downsides appear to be significant, according to new research by a group of professors in the United States, Germany and China. Vocational education, done right, helps workers find jobs when they are young. But as they age — and job requirements change — workers are often not well prepared for the changes, according to the study, published in The Journal of Human Resources. Rather than retraining workers, many companies decide to let them go and hire other workers. Most strikingly, the research found that people who received a broad, general education earned more over their lifetimes than otherwise similar people (that is, with similar test scores and years of schooling) who had attended vocational programs. Notably, the vocational graduates in most countries were more likely to be unemployed while older. “The largest problem of skills in the U.S. today isn’t a shortage of young workers with specific competencies,” Eric Hanushek, one of the researchers and a Stanford professor, wrote in a recent Wall Street Journal op-ed. “Instead it is a need for more general cognitive skills that give workers the ability to adapt to new circumstances and new jobs.” Clearly, this country still needs more and better vocational education. It remains a path to good blue-collar jobs for many Americans, and it could be a path for even more. But vocational education is not a perfect solution to blue-collar wage stagnation, and it can’t be the only solution. We also need to think about how to retrain people as they age. And we shouldn’t be promoting vocational education at the expense of general education. Expanding the number of four-year college graduates also deserves to be a national priority. They continue to fare much better in the job market than people who have not had the benefit of a broad, flexible education.