Late last week, the summer bucket list of a highly ambitious Pittsburgh teenager was reportedly discovered in an Urban Outfitters dressing room. Some items, written in green marker, include: “buy 7 bikinis,” “pet a giraffe,” “go ape” and “get drunk all the time.” (N.B.: The last one was completed as of the list’s discovery.) Today, we discovered another summer bucket list, this one tucked into an empty Everlane box and mistakenly placed in a recycling bin marked “cans and bottles only.” It appears to be written by a woman in her mid-thirties.  Try not to drink more than half a bottle of Pinot Grigio on weeknights. Finish “Anna Karenina” so you can stop lying. Research eye cream! Necessary to spring for La Mer? Ask younger sister to make you a killer workout playlist (“Hamilton,” “Dear Evan Hansen,” “Fiddler on the Roof,” etc.) Learn to take a flattering selfie. Ask 16-year-old cousin how she does that thing with her arm. Roll over 401ks into one account. Maybe consider trying half an Ecstasy pill (is that the same thing as Molly?) at some point with the right people and in the right environment where you feel 100 percent comfortable and safe, but read 25 articles about the potentially irreversible side effects of the drug before doing so. Kondo closet. Or at very least stop using an insulated cooler bag for underwear storage. Restart Weight Watchers. Tell Jenny to drag you to Saturday morning meetings. Pack lunch at least two days a week. Buy Dyson hair dryer! Treat yourself. Research credit card with best points. First learn what credit card points means. Set up Con-Ed and Time Warner direct deposit to avoid late fees every month. Don’t get overwhelmed and close the tab when you see that they’re asking for the routing number on your checks. Put “tfw” definition on a Post-it note so you don’t have to Google it every time. Agree to birthday drinks even if they are in Bed Stuy. Buck up and don’t take a cab this time. Finally watch “The Wire.” Reward self by rewatching all of “Sex and the City” for the fifth time. Get fitted for a bra since everyone insists you are a 34 and not a 32. Buy a pizza stone and actually use it. Budget out cost of having a dog. Have sex. Get a little tan.