“I never pegged you for a dropout,” a family friend said when I moved back home to sleepy Owensboro, Ky., after my freshman year of college. In high school I had been a stereotypical overachiever. Because my grades were good, I had little doubt that I’d excel in college. Instead, I did the opposite. I froze. There has been a lot of media coverage about students who fear failure so much that it affects everything from their grades to their mental health, but there seem to be misconceptions about where this fear comes from. It’s easy to dismiss young people as “soft” or desperate for participation trophies, but fear of failure is far more complex. I never thought I would be the best student on campus and never expected to be treated as if I were outstanding. I was prepared for a bad grade or rejection letter here or there. I was not prepared for feeling like I didn’t fit in, that there was no place for me on a campus where everyone told me I should be having the time of my life. I wasn’t afraid of failing as a student; I was afraid of failing as a person. Somewhat blindly, I’d chosen to attend a conservative college an hour away from where I grew up. I joined clubs, studied rigorously and rushed a sorority despite finding elements of Greek culture disturbing. But I struggled to conform to campus life. I had trained to be a professional ballet dancer in high school and was used to hard work so at first I thought that I just needed to try harder to take advantage of college. I continued to go through the motions but grew increasingly anxious. Simple things — like talking to other students or getting through a lecture — grew into insurmountable challenges. Things I knew I was capable of doing well became daunting; the emotional paralysis of it all left me even more depressed. As children, we’re trained to avoid failure, not learn from it. It’s presented as a sign of inadequacy, even worthlessness. I think this is the hidden cost of a K-12 curriculum that is achievement-oriented. Failure is never presented to us as a different kind of educational experience, a universal (and ceaseless) part of being human. As a result, I saw my mounting inadequacies as proof that my life was falling apart. After all, there was no rational reason I should have been unhappy. I believed that if I were truly qualified to be where I was, I wouldn’t be struggling at all. I went from being a confident literature nerd hoping to earn a Ph.D. to a voiceless, slumped student who cowered behind her desk. I stopped raising my hand and started hiding in the back of the classroom, afraid to speak up and publicly humiliate myself. I dropped classes and opted out of study abroad. I stopped eating and lost handfuls of hair. At the end of that year, I quit my sorority and withdrew from college. That’s when I had to confront the fact that the worst thing I could imagine had happened: I’d failed. But strangely, because it couldn’t be undone and there was nowhere to go but forward, it was easier to rebuild. Basically, after I left school, life opened up. I became comfortable learning about the world in a way that wasn’t scripted by a syllabus. To pay my bills, I taught ballet lessons and was soon doing administrative work for my old ballet studio. Because I liked writing, I volunteered for communications internships at nonprofits, which gave me professional writing experience that I’d never have gained in an English class. In the two years after dropping out, I founded a community yoga studio and worked my way up to being a director of public relations at an arts organization. Motivated by these successes, I realized I was furthering my own education, and I was pretty sure I’d never go back to college. But I did wish there was a way for me to finish my degree. One night while I was searching online, I came across the New School — one of a handful of universities that offer academic credit for real-world experience and knowledge gained outside of the classroom. The prior-learning credit program at the New School counts on-the-job training, volunteer work, military service and creative arts endeavors as academic credits. I submitted an application that explained how my out-of-school experiences in ballet and in nonprofit communications could be comparable to courses the university offered in subjects like online journalism and ballet technique. The New School offered me what amounted to a full year of college credit, which considerably lessened the cost of attending. I realize many students don’t have the safety net that I did: I was fortunate to have parents who could help when I dropped out. But prior-learning programs aren’t only for students like me. People of all ages and backgrounds can apply to schools that offer credit for life experience. These programs reveal the value of what its students have already accomplished and build on that, instead of encouraging many of us misfits to focus on the formal education we lack. College is often cast as the best four years of your life, but the reality is that too many students are anxious, overworked and paralyzed by the idea that one false move or rough patch will destroy their future. We would be better served if we were told that failure, while normal, is always unexpected, and that it is usually a useful lesson in something bigger. Most important, students aren’t all alike, and the college experience doesn’t need to be one-size-fits-all. I earned my degree at 23 years old. My biggest lesson? Failing my freshman year was the best thing for my education.