The announcement from the BBC that the next incarnation of the Doctor, title character of the generation-spanning science fiction TV series “Doctor Who,” will be played by a woman (Jodie Whittaker, star of “Broadchurch”), plunged the more cootie-phobic corners of the internet into a tempest this week. “I always knew I wanted the 13th Doctor to be a woman,” Chris Chibnall, the show’s incoming head writer, said. “We’re thrilled to have secured our No. 1 choice. Her audition for the Doctor simply blew us all away.” The previous 12 Doctors — more than a half-century of them — have been played by men, all of them white. In case you’re unfamiliar with the series, the Doctor is an alien from the planet Gallifrey who is hundreds of years old, has encyclopedic knowledge of the universe, can regenerate into a new body (any body) if wounded or killed, and travels through time fighting giant farting lizard babies, evil fire hydrants and occasionally Satan. A slightly different waist-hip ratio, one would think, shouldn’t stretch the imagination too far. Nevertheless, the announcement has yielded a wave of spittle-flecked contempt from certain online communities. A sampling, from Reddit: “Feminists killing of one of the most male dominated shows on the cuck BBC.” “Why don’t they also make her black and transgender so we’ve got all the PC boxes ticked?” “Looking forward to the episode where the doctor has to manage his period for the first time. It will happen.” “Surprised they didn’t pick Caitlin Jenner.” “Dr who was never supposed to be politically correct or girl power it was just Dr Who.” Of course, it’s possible (and, often, not especially illuminating) to comb the internet for every flavor of bad idea, but this tantrum, though silly, seems particularly emblematic of our current cultural moment. Critics frame the casting decision as the product of feminist overreach, one side of the Trumpian binary into which we’re all being inexorably pressed: the old order versus the new, us versus them. The notion of a “black and transgender” female Doctor is only absurd if you believe that white men are legitimate, full human beings and everyone else is a novelty. The Doctor, they seem to believe, is yet another white male birthright, like the American presidency, like the planet. Some die-hard fans are already salivating for their favorite series to founder under Chibnall’s leadership: If I can’t have you, no one will. I’ve been rereading “The Handmaid’s Tale” by Margaret Atwood this week. The last time I read it I was in high school, and my visceral sense of my own autonomy was still underdeveloped. I still felt, to a certain extent, like a thing that my parents owned, and some of the book’s deepest horrors were only intellectual to me. That moment, for instance, when the narrator stops to buy cigarettes and finds her account is frozen, that perfectly mundane, perfectly terrifying turn — I couldn’t feel it at 16 the way I feel it at 35. But the thing that really knocked the wind out of me this time around is her little suspicion, dark and furtive, that her husband isn’t quite as horrified as he should be by the government stripping women of property and self-determination. That maybe, deep down, some part of him feels a relief, a return to the natural order of things, of men as leaders and women as followers, passengers, companions. The internet can bluster all it wants, though — arguments against diversified representation are inherently self-defeating. If representation doesn’t matter, then why would men be unhappy with less? What’s 92 percent of Doctors instead of 100 percent? What’s 44 out of 45 presidencies? No one has even proposed that the next two Doctors be women, let alone the next 12, let alone actual parity. We are not even asking for equality, and it’s too much. That’s because inequality isn’t a bug; it’s a feature. In an interview with the BBC, Whittaker herself spoke to the power of representation: “It feels completely overwhelming; as a feminist, as a woman, as an actor, as a human, as someone who wants to continually push themselves and challenge themselves, and not be boxed in by what you’re told you can and can’t be.” It’s important to see people like you onscreen — and the unbridled, infectious joy I’ve seen across most of the internet after Whittaker’s casting makes that clear — but it’s just as important to see people who aren’t like you. Representation teaches us who we can be, but it also teaches other people who we are and how to treat us. I was going to say that as the Trump administration ramps up efforts to revive the war on drugs, strip abortion rights, make the tropics uninhabitable, destroy public education and wreak countless other havocs on marginalized groups, white men are the last people who need a hero. But maybe, on the other hand, she’s exactly what they need.