Back in the late ’90s, a Supreme Court case on the validity of a police search produced five separate opinions and left considerable doubt about who would ultimately benefit from the decision, prosecutors or criminal defendants. In our stories the next day, my opposite number at The Washington Post and I described the decision, Minnesota v. Carter, quite differently. At a reception a few days later, we encountered Justice Stephen G. Breyer, who had written one of the separate opinions. We told him about our confusion and differing interpretations. Which of us was right, we asked. Who actually won the case? “I don’t know,” Justice Breyer replied. “How can you not know?” I pushed back. The justice replied: “It depends on what the lower courts make of it.” At first, that answer struck me as coy, even evasive, but the more I thought about it — and I’ve actually thought about it over the years — the more accurate, even profound, it has come to appear. Ours is a common-law system, in which one case follows another and legal doctrine emerges from the crucible of decided cases. Accepting only about 65 cases a year, the Supreme Court sits on the top of a very big pyramid: thousands of cases pass through the system every year, and judges are tasked with finding and applying relevant Supreme Court precedents to new cases with facts that differ, slightly or quite a lot from those in the original case. I thought about the conversation with Justice Breyer as I read a decision the Supreme Court issued on the final day of its term. In Trinity Lutheran Church v. Comer, the court ruled that a church had a constitutional right to be considered on the same basis as secular institutions for a state grant to improve the safety of its preschool playground. The decision, with a majority opinion by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., was a sharp departure from the line the Supreme Court has maintained against the direct funding of churches (the church had described the preschool as part of its religious mission, so there was no dispute in the case that the school fully shared the church’s identity). Like most other states, Missouri, where the case arose, has a constitutional prohibition against public money going to churches. Invoking that provision, Missouri had deemed Trinity Lutheran categorically ineligible for the playground grant, although its preschool otherwise met the specified criteria. That exclusion put the church “to the choice between being a church and receiving a government benefit,” Chief Justice Roberts wrote. The court held that the exclusion amounted to discrimination against religion that was “odious to our Constitution,” a violation of the church’s First Amendment right to the free exercise of religion. Strong words and very broad implications, but the court stopped short of taking the obvious next step of declaring unconstitutional not only Missouri’s handling of a specific grant program, but also the state constitutional provision on which the state’s action was based. Instead of playing out the implications of its decision, the majority opinion contained a footnote: “This case involves express discrimination based on religious identity with respect to playground resurfacing. We do not address religious uses of funding or other forms of discrimination.” To call this footnote odd is an understatement. The Supreme Court doesn’t usually summon the majestic, if opaque, phrases of the Constitution to swat a mouse (in this case, a program to use recycled tires as a playground surface). Of the seven justices in the majority (only Justices Sonia Sotomayor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg dissented), only four subscribed to the footnote: Justices Anthony M. Kennedy, Samuel A. Alito Jr., and Elena Kagan, in addition to the chief justice. Justice Breyer concurred only in the judgment, so the footnote was not part of an opinion that he signed. And Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil M. Gorsuch objected that the footnote narrowed the holding of the case unrealistically. So the footnote doesn’t even speak for a majority of the nine-member court. Chief Justice Roberts probably added it to satisfy the demand of Justice Kagan or Justice Kennedy, or both, for some limitation on the decision; it was crucial to hold them, even at the price of alienating Justices Gorsuch and Thomas, who were going to stay with the majority in all other respects. No matter what the footnote meant when the decision was issued on June 26, the question now is: What will it mean in the future? And that brings me back to Justice Breyer’s long-ago answer: It depends on what the lower courts make of it. History offers a lesson: There is a momentum to Supreme Court decisions, and efforts to cabin the logical progression of legal doctrine will fail if the political and cultural forces that led to the doctrine in the first place remain in play. It’s Newton’s law of motion in the legal context: A doctrine in motion will stay in motion unless met by an outside force — a backlash or a change of cast. The steps can be small, but they can add up to giant steps. A recent example: the court’s endorsement of a doctrine known as the “ministerial exception,” which immunizes churches against lawsuits by clergy alleging job discrimination. The doctrine had been developed in the lower courts, and the Supreme Court considered it for the first time in 2012 with a unanimous opinion by Chief Justice Roberts. The question in Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church v. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission was whether the exception applies to employees who are not ordained ministers and, if so, to whom. How far from the pulpit should the exception extend? The court held that the exception applied to a parochial school teacher who claimed that her dismissal was the result of discrimination on the basis of disability. Although not an ordained minister, the teacher had special training and held the job title of “minister of religion, commissioned.” Church doctrine considered her to be a “called” teacher, as distinct from an ordinary “lay” teacher. She taught religion classes and led students in prayer. The court held that under the ministerial exception, her discrimination suit, whatever its merits, had to be dismissed. “There will be time enough to address the applicability of the exception to other circumstances if and when they arise,” Chief Justice Roberts wrote at the end of his opinion. Inevitably, other circumstances did arise. Last week, the federal appeals court in New York applied the ministerial exception to the principal of a Catholic school in Rockland County, N.Y., dismissing the lawsuit she had filed alleging sex discrimination in the school’s refusal to renew her contract. Her job title was “lay principal,” and she had no formal training in religion or theology. Nonetheless, the appeals court concluded that her role in the school was that of a religious leader and that the ministerial exception therefore fit. Writing for the three-judge panel, Judge Robert D. Sack acknowledged that the Supreme Court’s 2012 decision “is not without its Delphic qualities” and that the question was a hard one. The case “lies at the center of the tension between an employer’s right to freedom of religion and an employee’s right not to be unlawfully discriminated against,” he observed. The plaintiff’s lawyer said he would appeal to the full appeals court. If this case, Fratello v. Archdiocese of New York, doesn’t reach the Supreme Court, another one surely will as the boundaries of the ministerial exception are pressed ever outward. Of course, not every decision gains momentum. The court’s 2008 decision interpreting the Second Amendment to protect the right to keep a handgun at home for self-defense is a case in point. The lower courts have refused many opportunities to extend the decision, District of Columbia v. Heller, beyond the original context. Maybe that’s because the 5-to-4 decision, overturning decades of implicit Supreme Court precedent, was such a shock to the system. Or maybe it’s because of the limits Justice Antonin Scalia set on his majority opinion. He made clear — probably in order to keep Justice Kennedy’s necessary vote — that the decision authorized handguns in the home and went no further: Although we do not undertake an exhaustive historical analysis today of the full scope of the Second Amendment, nothing in our opinion should be taken to cast doubt on longstanding prohibitions on the possession of firearms by felons and the mentally ill, or laws forbidding the carrying of firearms in sensitive places such as schools and government buildings, or laws imposing conditions and qualifications on the commercial sale of arms. Last month, the court’s refusal to take up a case from California on whether the Second Amendment grants the right to carry firearms outside the home infuriated Justice Thomas, who accused his colleagues, with the exception of Justice Gorsuch, who joined him in dissent, of treating the Second Amendment as a “disfavored right.” Someone could write a book about the Supreme Court’s failed footnotes, those that seemed to promise a limit on a decision’s holding that proves unable to withstand the momentum unleashed by the decision itself. One famous example is a footnote in Virginia Pharmacy Board v. Virginia Consumer Council, the 1976 decision that created the modern doctrine of commercial speech by granting pharmacists the First Amendment right to advertise drug prices. The logical question was whether the doctrine would apply to advertising by other professionals, including — horrors — lawyers. Justice Harry A. Blackmun added a footnote to his majority opinion that offered a kind of noncommittal reassurance: We stress that we have considered in this case the regulation of commercial advertising by pharmacists. Although we express no opinion as to other professions, the distinctions, historical and functional, between professions, may require consideration of quite different factors. Physicians and lawyers, for example, do not dispense standardized products; they render professional services of almost infinite variety and nature, with the consequent enhanced possibility for confusion and deception if they were to undertake certain kinds of advertising. Clear enough? A year later, in Bates v. State Bar of Arizona, another majority opinion by Justice Blackmun declared that lawyers have a First Amendment right to advertise.