This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Today is the six-month mark of Donald Trump’s presidency, and I think it’s still correct to say that his presidency is off to the least successful start in modern times. That’s not a judgment based on his policies (although regular readers surely know I’m no fan of their content). It’s instead an attempt to judge him on his own terms, as I tried to do at the 100-day mark: How effective has he been in accomplishing what he promised to accomplish? I’m somewhat surprised that the answer today feels so similar to the answer at the 100-day mark, because there were times in the last few months when he seemed on the verge of becoming more successful, at least on his own terms. After the House passed its health care bill, it was possible to imagine a series of major bills that would sweep away regulations, reduce benefits for the poor and middle class and cut taxes for the rich. All of that may still happen, given that Trump’s party controls both branches of Congress. But the prospect feels quite far away after the collapse, for now, of the most recent version of the Senate health bill. Instead, Trump has the lowest approval ratings in the history of presidential polling, no major legislative success (or even progress toward such success), a mushrooming scandal and investigation, ill will from many foreign leaders and a partly unstaffed executive branch. The presidency remains an awesomely powerful office, and Trump has had a clear impact. He successfully nominated a very conservative Supreme Court justice. He rolled back many Obama regulations, as the conservative commentator Hugh Hewitt has noted. And Trump has used executive orders to change policy on climate, immigration and other issues. In response to a video of a father being deported from Cleveland to Mexico yesterday, the progressive leader Neera Tanden tweeted: “Good reminder that though we can have legislative successes, Trump is doing heartbreaking damage thru his executive powers.” Trump is clearly more powerful than any other American today. He is also surprisingly lacking in power for a president. No wonder he seems so frustrated. Elsewhere: On Charlie Rose’s show this week, I discussed both the demise of the health care bill and my nourish-your-political-soul project, along with Gerald Seib of The Wall Street Journal. From the archives: Like many people, I’m thinking of John McCain this morning. I recommend reading his 1973 account, published in U.S. News & World Report, of his time as a war prisoner. “My final answer is the same,” McCain writes, recalling an act of amazing bravery and sacrifice. “It’s ‘No.’ ” You may also want to read a Times op-ed McCain wrote earlier this year, “Why We Must Support Human Rights.”