Millions of Americans will be wondering how Senator John McCain is coping with the news that he has an aggressive form of brain cancer known as glioblastoma. I certainly am: I found out that I had the same type of deadly tumor 18 months ago. It was in January 2016 that I became one of the 18,000 unlucky Americans who get a diagnosis of glioblastoma every year. I was hiking in upstate New York when I started to feel inexplicably odd. I wanted to alert my companions that something was wrong, but there was a disconnect between the desire to speak and my ability to do so. Then my eyelids closed and that was that: a full-blown seizure, followed by an ambulance ride off the mountain, and brain surgery two days later that culminated in the same terrible diagnosis that Mr. McCain has just received. That dreadful word, glioblastoma, probably puts most people off further reflection on the matter. But I have no choice but to think about the tumor that lay inside the left parietal area of my brain every day. And that is a reality I share with the senator from Arizona and thousands of other Americans. In our common fight for survival, a diagnosis is just the beginning. New glioblastoma patients like Mr. McCain are generally offered the “standard of care.” This consists of surgery, if surgery is possible, followed by a six-week regime of daily chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatments, pausing for one month and then a further six months of chemotherapy. The problem with this regime is that it is, as my neuro-oncologist delicately put it, “suboptimal.” Bluntly, for a vast majority of patients, it doesn’t work. Median survival, the point by which half of those with glioblastoma have died, is usually put at 14 months. Only one in 20 people survive five years. That’s because glioblastomas are nasty, dogged entities that do not give up until they have done their worst. Formed from the glue-like supportive tissue inside the brain the tumor cells reproduce quickly, fed by the brain’s large network of blood vessels. If a tumor can be excised, it still leaves behind tiny tentacles that even the finest surgeon can’t remove. This means that surgery can’t cure glioblastoma. Neither can the current regime of chemotherapy and radiotherapy, so tumors grow back, each time more aggressive and deadly than before. It doesn’t help that we don’t know what causes glioblastoma, or how to prevent it. There are reasons for hope. The advent of immunotherapy treatments, coupled with greater understanding of our genetic profiles, promises a new era of treatment in which our bodies heal themselves. But those of us now in the throes of the disease don’t have the luxury of time for the results of trials. For Beau Biden, the son of Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., or for Senator Edward M. Kennedy before him — both glioblastoma patients — the vaunted advances in medical science did not come soon enough. My strategy is to hit this aggressive cancer aggressively. In addition to the standard of care, I take a medication called Opdivo, a treatment known as checkpoint inhibitor immunotherapy. Made by Bristol-Myers Squibb, it is paid for, in my case, through the company’s compassionate use program. I also wear the Optune device, which directs tumor-treating electrical fields inside my brain to disrupt the division of cancer cells. A recent study found that the device delays recurrence of tumors and increases the five-year survival rate of those treated to 13 percent from 5 percent. The hope of such futuristic treatments is that they will give me enough future for the scientists to come through. For now, I feel fine. I meet with my neuro-oncologist every two months, following an in-depth M.R.I. Thanks to good health insurance and excellent specialists, I am getting the best treatment in the world, which is not the case for a high percentage of the population even in this, the wealthiest country in human history. Mr. McCain should take comfort in the cutting-edge search for a cure that is underway. He should also take comfort in the great efforts to increase public funding to find such a cure, notably by the Biden Cancer Initiative. But there is one missing element that Mr. McCain will surely want to attend to, now that he has joined our embattled but determined band of glioblastoma patients: the hope that lies in our own hands. The element often lost amid the high-tech therapy is patient power. It is patients’ actions, knowledge and strength that, in tandem with world-class scientists and supportive public servants, will find a way through. By pooling patients’ experiences through tools like the smartphone app I’m helping to develop, we can improve the medical advice that other people with glioblastoma are getting, and help to fast-track the recruitment of people to clinical trials. I imagine most people feel a surge of pity for Mr. McCain. I do, too. But I also feel something more powerful: solidarity. I wouldn’t wish membership in this club on anyone, Senator, but now you’re a member, you’ll find the warmest of welcomes. My life has been changed profoundly by my glioblastoma. Mr. McCain’s life will be, too. But by finding a way to channel the terror of the diagnosis productively, I feel more alive today than ever.