The physical act of breaking a golf club is very easy — you simply raise the club in your dominant hand, shout something obscene and whip the traitorous implement as hard as possible into the earth. If your technique is sound, the shaft will snap in half, and you will feel a deep satisfaction that lasts approximately three seconds. The entire process, as I discovered perhaps a dozen times in my brief but torrid love affair with golf, is a cinch. The hard part comes beforehand, when an endless procession of bad shots forces you to submerge your gnawing frustration time and time again, the white-hot rage building by degrees until it reaches that beautiful, cathartic boiling point. This pre-eruption stage will include the poison of false hope, a warm chemical reaction spurred on by the rare but addicting accident of a perfectly struck ball. Pay no attention to this fleeting optimism — in golf, the brightest hour is just before dusk, and these flashes of competence will only add fuel to the anger when it comes rushing back. The hard part also comes afterward, when the excruciating shame sets in. You will apologize to your playing partners, who are inevitably very calm people with very low handicaps. They will look at you with a mixture of fear and pity, and then they will fall into an awkward silence. Later you will march into the clubhouse and hand your broken club, along with a credit card, to Joe the club pro. You will try to grin nonchalantly as you say, “It happened again.” Joe will bite his lip rather than cast judgment, but that gesture will be a judgment of its own. And one day — one fine day — you will quit. I played golf for three years. Watching the British Open — staged this week at Royal Birkdale, north of Liverpool — never fails to remind me of that strange, volatile period. The memories it conjures are vivid, especially when the seaside weather is nasty, and it takes me back to the dim origins of my introduction to the sport. My stepfather was, and is, a golf addict who would gladly brave the rain, sleet and (light) snow in the Adirondack Mountains of upstate New York. He often tried to get me hooked, the way an enterprising drug dealer peddles his wares to youths, but as a child I preferred the faster sports — basketball, football. One day, with my mother out of the house, he asked me to go with him to the driving range. Sure, I said, as long as I can take my baseball glove. He agreed, and soon I was standing on an empty range, 120 yards out, trying to catch his soaring 9-irons. I found them difficult to judge, and it took several shots before I successfully planted myself beneath the descending white dot, at which point I neglected to raise my glove in time. The ball hit me just above the right eyebrow, I went down in a bloody heap, and 20 stitches later, I disavowed golf. But the game could not resist me. Slowly but surely, I began to follow the majors on TV. When I landed a writing job at the sports website Grantland in my late 20s, I begged my bosses in 2012 to send me to cover my favorite event, the Ryder Cup. Nobody else was interested, so they agreed. That trip went well enough, so I covered more golf the next year, and by the end of 2013 — almost by accident — I landed a book deal to write about the young stars of the P.G.A. Tour. At some point in this process, I decided that if I were going to write a whole book about the sport and spend a year traveling with the P.G.A. Tour, I should probably learn to play. I found a good, inexpensive public course near my house, bought some clubs, took lessons and worked up the courage to attempt an actual round. Even with the benefit of age, golf and I had not become soul mates. I grew obsessed with the game, but it was a toxic relationship. It didn’t take long to learn that golf required a serenity that was not my natural state and that to excel, I’d have to contain the nervous energy that had been my dubious gift since birth. A wise onlooker, watching me swing too hard or hearing me curse on the driving range and suffering a lecture from a pious old man — this happened twice — might conclude that the sport and I were fundamentally incompatible. Nevertheless, I had my moments. There’s a kind of poetry to golf that becomes apparent when you divorce it from its larger American cultural niche, and there were days when I could feel my soul align with this quieter aspect. On the rare mornings when I maintained a Zenlike mind-set for an entire round, I’d leave the course with a sense of fulfillment and dignity, as opposed to the shame and humiliation that accompanied so many of my rounds. And I improved, too — I broke 100, then I broke 90, then I shot 85, and perhaps a round in the 70s wasn’t far off. But even as I fell deeper under golf’s sway, it became harder to ignore the ugly political side of the game. A few events happened in tandem. First, I finished my book, and it caused a small stir among the conservative golf community. It was labeled “controversial,” though it would have been merely “interesting” by the standards of a normal sport. Among golf’s literati, though, the mere fact that it wasn’t a paean stuffed with quasi-spiritual hokum — that I was actually critical of certain players — meant it was treated (for a day or two, anyway) like the second coming of Martin Luther’s “95 Theses.” The miniature uproar was good for sales, but the burnout I felt after a year of constant travel, coupled with the months spent giving interviews in defense of my “radical” approach, led me to conclude that I never wanted to cover golf again. This crisis of faith coincided with the dual rise of Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump, which pushed me further to the political left and cast the sport’s rigid conservatism in a new and unflattering light. The red flags I had been able to ignore — the endless evidence that American professional golfers are, with few exceptions, the entitled products of a selfish, insular and elitist culture of wealth — now struck me as offensive and enraging. I tried, but I could not reconcile my awakening with the values inherent in the professional game. Politically and personally, the chasm widened. I deluded myself that I could separate the sport from its millionaires and that on a personal level I could achieve mastery over my mercurial disposition. In reality, it was only a matter of time before some new flame swept me off my feet. Ironically, the seduction came from another sport with a white-collar reputation: tennis. But on the public courts of Durham, N.C., tennis was free, and democratic, and wonderful. I could run, I could sweat, I could shout, I could laugh, and where a mistake in golf could ruin a whole round, on the hard courts it never cost me more than a point. I lost weight, I made new friends and I felt happier. I was rejuvenated in the original sense of the word — I’d gone from old to young. It engrossed me totally, and the day came when I told myself that I’d have to split my time between sports. And then came another day, not long after, when I realized that I wouldn’t be splitting my time at all. The golf clubs took up new residence in the closet of a spare room, and they have languished there, untouched, for more than a year. But there’s a seed that, when planted, never quite dies, even when the bloom has faded. I’ll still watch the British Open this weekend, and I will still be intrigued. There will come a moment on Sunday when I forget my political hang-ups, and the drama hooks me completely. Just as there will come a time, if I can live long enough, when even the forgiving surface of a clay tennis court is too hard on my knees, and the endless sprinting after the yellow ball is more than my lungs can handle, and the green fairways, plush and long, shaded by oaks and pines in the late afternoon sun, appeal to me again.