Until his untimely death in 1986, my grandfather was my best friend. On weekend mornings he’d let my parents sleep in while he brought me downstairs to watch cartoons. We made regular trips to the San Jose, Calif., flea market where he’d buy me cheap toys and impress me with his masterful bargaining, which made them even cheaper. We’d watch Clint Eastwood movies, with him in his La-Z-Boy and me on his lap. Like Donald Trump’s grandfather, my grandfather was an immigrant. Born in India, he moved to Karachi, Pakistan, with his wife and young children in 1952. In 1973, when my father, who’d already immigrated to the United States as a college student, was sick with Hodgkin’s disease, my grandmother and grandfather showed up in Chicago to care for him. They made America their new home, embracing bell bottoms and developing passions for Tom Jones and American westerns. After my parents married in a ceremony in Pakistan, my mom immigrated here as well. Along with several of my aunts and uncles, they eventually moved to California. The entire family — along with baby me, born in 1980 — packed into a tiny apartment. My grandfather advised my father as he worked to start a business. My grandmother ran the kitchen with the discipline of a drill sergeant and the wisdom of, well, a grandmother. She taught my mother and aunts how to cook amazing Pakistani meals for two dozen people on a moment’s notice. Everyone pitched in to care for me, a team of in-house, bonus caregivers and companions whose value I appreciate even more now that I’m a father myself. We were a bona fide family. I thought of us as I read the latest in a series of rulings on the legality of Mr. Trump’s executive order temporarily banning travel by people from Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen — popularly known as the “Muslim Ban.” Last month the Supreme Court temporarily reinstated the ban, but said those who had a “bona fide relationship” with a “person or entity” in the United States — including “close family members” — could be granted exceptions and allowed to enter the country. But who is close enough to be bona fide? The State Department sent shock waves through immigrant communities with their incomprehensible interpretation that uncles, aunts, nephews, nieces, cousins, brothers- and sisters-in-law, grandchildren and grandparents were not. (Mothers-in-law were deemed more “bona fide” than grandparents. Really? A majority of sons-in-law across the globe, regardless of ethnicity or religion, would vehemently disagree.) A July 13 decision by a Federal District Court in Honolulu corrected that, broadening the list of excepted relatives. “Indeed, grandparents are the epitome of close family members,” the judge wrote. In an order Wednesday, the Supreme Court upheld that part of the decision. That means American kids with family members in the administration’s list of Muslim-majority countries will (for now, at least) have the chance to welcome their relatives here in America — and to experience the full range of chaotic, noisy relationships, filled with love and universal family dysfunction, that I did. When my family moved into our first suburban home, my dad gave the master bedroom to my grandparents. After my grandfather’s death, I slept in my grandmother’s queen-size bed for years. She babysat me after school, mixing saffron with white rice to give me the impression I was eating biryani. She is probably to blame for the fact that I was overweight and had to wear humiliating husky-size pants as a child. But she was also a 24-7 prayer factory who lovingly blew Quranic verses directly in my face and, even when I was an adult, volunteered to strangers at the mall in her broken English that I was her heart. During her final years, as degenerative arthritis took a sledgehammer to her knees, the two of us would watch melodramatic Indian soap operas while eating achaar, South Asian pickles that her doctor warned were terrible for her health. She disagreed, insisting that a little “khatta” — sour taste — “makes everything better.” I was the last person at her side before she slipped into her coma. I was the last person standing at the grave beside her body shrouded in white. I prayed for her, hoping to convey my gratitude for her contributions, love and devotion to me and my family. In December 2013, I buried her in Fremont, Calif., next to a field, close to the hills, bathed in the sun. In legal terms, the latest ruling means relationships like the ones I had with her and my grandfather are legally deemed close enough to be “bona fide.” But I didn’t need a Supreme Court decision to tell me our love was real, genuine and sincere. American kids with families like mine deserve a chance to discover that on their own — and to meet the people who just might become their best friends.