In a criminal courtroom in downtown Manhattan on Wednesday evening, a group of prosecutors were screaming for revenge. “We are wretched, overcome with rage, completely consumed by the lust for vengeance now coursing through our veins!” they roared. “We groan for retribution!” These particular prosecutors weren’t wearing power suits or clutching briefcases. They were a chorus of Furies, ancient Greek spirits of vengeance, played by a single actress in a highly unconventional production of “The Eumenides,” the third and final tragedy in Aeschylus’s nearly 2,500-year-old trilogy “The Oresteia.” The play was put on by the Theater of Law, a new collaboration between New York University’s Forum on Law, Culture and Society and the company Theater of War. The company plans to bring the play to prosecutors’ offices, law firms, bar associations and victims’ rights groups in cities like Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami and Orlando, Fla., to spur conversation about fairness in the criminal justice system, particularly as mandatory minimum sentencing makes a comeback under Attorney General Jeff Sessions. This production was performed for an audience of prosecutors, including Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr. Bryan Doerries, the artistic director of Theater of War, has been presenting classical plays to targeted groups for a decade. Beginning in 2008, he staged scenes from Sophocles’ “Ajax” — about the mythological Greek hero’s suicide during the Trojan War — for veterans as a way to help them process what they experienced in Iraq and Afghanistan. The shows were no less than lifesaving. Mr. Doerries hopes the theatrical experience of seeing “The Eumenides” will allow district attorneys to reflect on the complexities of the justice system and, as he said, “the moral consequences to the things they do.” Judging from the post-show discussion, the play stoked conversation among prosecutors already grappling with conflicted feelings about revenge and the satisfaction it brings. “We have victims,” said Sarah Khan, an assistant district attorney in New York, and “we can’t always make them whole.” Even after a jail sentence is announced, she said, “A lot of victims don’t feel satisfied. Because the thing that’s making them hurt is not going to go away by sending that person to jail.” “The Oresteia” has all of the elements of a great episode of “Law and Order”: romantic affairs, murder and vengeance. Eventually, the intrafamily crimes of the House of Atreus culminate in a proper trial, and Athena acquits Orestes in the murder of his mother. Unsurprisingly, the audience of local prosecutors was largely unimpressed with the verdict. So were the Furies. “It sounded like commentators after the O.J. verdict,” said Zachary Carter, the city government’s top lawyer and former United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York. The thirst for revenge that the Furies articulate so passionately has not died down since the days of the Greeks, according to Mr. Vance. “The Furies are the public because something terrible happens and the public wants action,” Mr. Vance said. “When the 2008 mortgage crisis happened, America wanted heads on a spike.” Rehabilitation, deterrence and “just deserts” are “hopefully in balance,” Mr. Vance said. “Our job is to make sure that we are balancing those. I think revenge is probably the one we need to watch out for most,” he said of prosecutors’ responsibility. Every family of a victim “wants justice, whatever that is,” Mr. Vance added. But the initial rage they feel “often cools over time,” which is “why these things get resolved in court as opposed to getting resolved with pistols and a duel or with swords.” For some prosecutors, whose professional groups often resist sentencing reform legislation, it’s become less clear that the punishments doled out by the legal system offer victims the emotional satisfaction they crave, let alone reflect a truly fair punishment. You don’t have to look far to find such examples. Fate Vincent Winslow was sentenced to life without parole for selling two dime bags of marijuana. Kalief Browder spent roughly two years in solitary confinement for allegedly stealing a backpack. A Minnesota woman was charged with murder last year for sharing her fentanyl patch with her boyfriend, who accidentally overdosed. And an Iraq War veteran faces deportation after trying to light a beer bottle on fire. “We have to be very aware of power, who does our society value,” Natalae Velez, an assistant district attorney in Manhattan, said after the show. The play reminded her of a shoplifting case, when a defense attorney called her saying that the defendant came from a good family and went to an Ivy League school. “It made me think, if that’s a good family, how are we defining a bad family? And should we not be treating them equally?”