It’s been a rough start for my friend Anthony Scaramucci as President Trump’s surprise — and surprising — choice as the new White House communications director. That’s too bad, because I would like nothing better than for him to succeed wildly in his new job. Lord knows Mr. Trump can use the help. Anthony is the living embodiment of the American dream. From Ghost Motorcycles, his family’s scary-seeming motorcycle shop on Long Island, he made his way to Harvard Law School, Goldman Sachs (for two tours of duty), and then to the pinnacle of finance, where he was the founder of SkyBridge Capital. Over the years, Anthony became the impresario of the fund’s annual SALT Las Vegas conference, which brings together the leaders of finance, politics, film, sports and the military in a well-organized forum where the free exchange of ideas is celebrated. He bought and then revived the much beloved “Wall Street Week” TV show. He is a natural salesman. His affectionate nickname on Wall Street is “The Mooch.” Anthony has the skills to make a big difference in this White House. He is smart, generous and funny, open-minded and ambitious — but not in an obnoxious way. He cares about being able to disagree without being disagreeable. I have always been impressed by the way he could proclaim his support for Mitt Romney, Scott Walker, Jeb Bush or David Koch while at the same time admiring Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. We have shared many beers at Bill’s, on East 54th Street, debating our opposing political viewpoints and sharing our life experiences. We first really got to know each other at SALT, where he invited me on four occasions and paid for me to interview, on stage, the likes of Oliver Stone and Michael Lewis. One year, SkyBridge bought copies of my controversial book, “The Price of Silence,” about the Duke lacrosse scandal, to give away to conference attendees, even though the SALT regular David Rubenstein, the powerful founder of the Carlyle Group and the chairman of the Duke board of trustees, objected vehemently. But the Anthony Scaramucci I know and admire was not the Anthony Scaramucci who stepped up to the lectern in the White House briefing room on Friday afternoon. Dressed to the nines in a navy blue power suit, he was sycophantic. He professed his “love” for Mr. Trump over and over again — six times, by one count. It was painful and embarrassing to watch. His blind ambition was on further display on the Sunday morning talk shows. He pledged to rout out White House leakers and threatened to fire anyone on the communications staff who doesn’t get with the program. At times, he seemed to be speaking only to Mr. Trump. “I’m going to be working for you,” he said on CNN’s “State of the Union.” “And I’m going to serve the American people. And we’re going to get your agenda out into the heartland, where it belongs.” Asked on “Face the Nation” if Mr. Trump would finally succeed in repealing Obamacare, Anthony said cloyingly: “I don’t know if he’s going to get what he wants next week, but he’s going to get what he wants eventually, because this guy always gets what he wants. O.K.?” In a further paean to his new boss, Anthony is furiously deleting his past tweets, in a sad attempt to airbrush away his enthusiasm for bipartisanship. He erased one from April 2016 — “Barack Obama: As your friend, let me say that the E.U. makes Britain even greater. Re: #Brexit I stand with @POTUS” — that showed how once upon a time he could be fair-minded and ecumenical. His argument for purging his Twitter stream (delivered in a tweet) was, ironically, “full transparency”: Say what you want about President Trump, he succeeds wildly at diminishing those who come in direct contact with him. It’s a phenomenon that was articulated beautifully by Thomas Ricks, the Pulitzer-prize winning journalist, in a June appearance on MSNBC when he said that Mr. Trump is “very good at borrowing other people’s credibility.” Specifically, he worried that the president had “strip-mined” the credibility of his friend, H. R. McMaster, the national security adviser. I share Mr. Ricks’s concern for my friend Anthony Scaramucci, a good man who is rapidly being tarnished by his proximity to Mr. Trump. I get that an important part of Anthony’s new job is to be loyal to the president and to his agenda. But in the name of decency and self-preservation, he should really curb his enthusiasm. And he’d do well to keep in mind what one of his heroes, Warren Buffett, likes to say: “It takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it. If you think about that, you’ll do things differently.”