To leave a comment on the story, click the word-bubble icon to the right. Quick: What’s the best movie about the Vietnam War? Wait. Let’s start over. Before we start debating “Platoon” vs. “Apocalypse Now,” we have to decide on some basic terms. What are we talking about when we talk about “Vietnam movies”? The genre’s core is clear: movies that deal explicitly with combat, or the American presence in Vietnam generally, from the late 1950s to the mid-’70s. So, along with prestige dramas like “Platoon” and “Apocalypse Now,” there are buddy action flicks (“Flight of the Intruder”), comedies (“Good Morning, Vietnam”), dramedies (“For the Boys”), even kids’ movies (“Operation Dumbo Drop”). (Since this is supposed to be a short column, let’s set aside documentaries, of which there are countless.) The list of movies in that core is actually quite short — two dozen or so, and they stopped appearing, with a few exceptions, in the early 1990s. Move a bit outside it, though, and the genre spins off into dozens of subcategories, the shape of which say a lot about how America has viewed the war over the decades since it ended. Advertisement It’s telling, for example, that the “disturbed Vietnam vet” drives many of the movies released in the 1970s: memorable ones, like “Taxi Driver” and “The Deer Hunter,” and not-so-memorable ones, like “Deathdream” and “Forced Entry.” Others are vehemently antiwar: “Coming Home,” “The Visitors.” The antiwar, anti-soldier tenor of those early movies gave way, in the 1980s, to a new kind of Vietnam film, in which veterans were embraced as anti-Communist warriors and Vietnam was appropriated as an apolitical set-piece for big-gun action films. Coincidentally, one of the last “disturbed vet” films, “First Blood,” about a veteran who comes into bloody conflict with small-town cops in the Pacific Northwest, opened one of the iconic franchises of the 1980s, Rambo, in which the title character became an avatar of anti-Communism and staggering firepower. Alongside it came movies like the “Missing in Action” franchise, “Uncommon Valor,” “The Expendables” and “Eye of the Eagle.” This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Fortunately, with the end of the Cold War and the passage of time came a more nuanced examination of veterans’ lives, and a willingness to go beyond the stock white male characters who inhabited earlier efforts: “In Country,” “Dead Presidents” and “Heaven and Earth,” among many others. Along a separate track, there are movies about Vietnam as a cultural experience, with a focus on the home front. There are no combat scenes in “Hair” or “Return of the Secaucus Seven,” but no one would argue that these aren’t Vietnam movies. Then there are movies that are “about” Vietnam, even though the war has nothing to do with them, explicitly. “M*A*S*H,” set during the Korean War but released in 1970, obviously — but also “Bonnie and Clyde” (1967) and “The Wild Bunch” (1969), ultra-bloody films whose respective directors, Arthur Penn and Sam Peckinpah, consciously devised their films as implicit commentary on the violence overseas. Are these Vietnam movies? Maybe not — but could you imagine them appearing at any other time? And what about movies that reflect the moment of Vietnam, but never mention it? What about films whose very lack of reference to Vietnam makes them, in a roundabout way, Vietnam movies? Road flicks, like “Easy Rider” or “Five Easy Pieces,” which speak to the dissolution and displacement that shaped the 1970s? What about movies that capture the era’s aura of political ennui and paranoia, like “Shampoo” or “The Parallax View”? Maybe the most famous non-Vietnam Vietnam movie is “Love Story” (1970). The story revolves around the star-crossed romance of Oliver and Jenny, possibly the only two ’60s-era Harvard students to never pick up an antiwar placard. And yet, with a plot revolving around generational conflict, anti-Establishment politics and “death claiming the young and the beautiful,” wrote the Canadian critic Robert Fulford, “It’s a Vietnam film in which Vietnam remains offscreen.” As Pauline Kael said at a 1972 panel, “Vietnam we experience indirectly in just about every movie we go to.” And arguably, in everything America did, and thought, at the time. What we talk about when we talk about Vietnam movies is far more than a parlor debate about film genres – it’s an exercise in exploring just how broadly and deeply the war shaped American culture. So, back to where we started. What’s the best movie about the Vietnam War? Clay Risen is the deputy op-ed editor and the editor of the Vietnam ’67 series. Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 