The dramatic last moments of Senate Republicans’ efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act may have looked like the “regular order” that Senator John McCain had called for earlier in the week: There were amendments, debate and votes. But the underlying process, known as budget reconciliation, is far from regular. The rules governing reconciliation bills, which will likely be used again soon either to revive the health reform fight or to push through tax cuts, are so different from everyday procedures that insiders sometimes refer to them as creating a separate Senate. In one, governed by the rule of open debate, the process is slow, deliberative and easy to disrupt, and passing legislation generally requires 60 votes. But when the Senate is in budget reconciliation mode, it can move quickly, debate is limited, only 50 votes are needed for passage and the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, exercises strict control. The distinction between the 60-vote Senate and the 50-vote Senate under reconciliation has vast, idiosyncratic consequences for the substance of legislation. The “50-vote Senate” might seem more democratic than the normal Senate, since a majority can enact its priorities. But the limits on deliberation, and the rules about what can and can’t be included, are so strict that reconciliation is really a closed process that gives senators little opportunity to participate. Reconciliation, even more incomprehensible than the normally messy legislative process, further closes government off to citizens and deepens the mistrust that has poisoned American democracy. Time for debate is limited to 20 hours, and while under normal rules any senator can offer any amendment to any bill, under reconciliation rules, amendments must have a specific budget impact and be related to the underlying bill — this week, lots of ideas to improve health care couldn’t even be offered. At the end of the 20 hours allowed for debate, most amendments will be voted up or down rapidly in a quick-drill process known as “vote-a-rama,” which had just begun when the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, pulled the health bill from the floor. If the normal Senate is too open, too deliberative, or if it’s too easy for a minority of members to prevent action, the 50-vote Senate is the opposite: too frantic, too tightly controlled by leadership, too closed off to new ideas and alternatives. The complex, twisting border between these two Senates, each undemocratic in its own way, now has an outsize importance in American politics. You might expect that there’s some underlying logic or principle behind it. Journalists often assume that the purpose of reconciliation is to reduce federal budget deficits, but deficits weren’t the concern in 1974, when reconciliation was created as part of a new congressional budget process. The law was intended simply to reassert the power of Congress over federal spending, which had ceded power to the president (at the time, Richard Nixon) because it didn’t set an overall budget of its own. To avoid resistance from powerful committee chairmen in Congress, budget reformers created new committees and new institutions, notably the Congressional Budget Office, but grafted them awkwardly on top of 18th-century congressional customs. Congress was expected to pass a nonbinding budget resolution annually, a guideline for tax and spending levels and rough ideas to achieve them, and then later in the year, reconciliation would force committees to bring spending and taxes in line with the levels agreed to in the resolution. When first used in 1980, it was to make changes in a few programs. In practice, the 50-vote Senate meets infrequently, but with huge consequences. Since 1974, only 20 budget reconciliation bills have been passed and signed into law. (Under Barack Obama, only one reconciliation bill was enacted, making changes to the Affordable Care Act.) It was President Ronald Reagan and his budget director David Stockman who first realized that they could use reconciliation to package together a set of budget cuts into one giant bill. In the 1980s and 1990s, reconciliation was most often a vehicle for the bipartisan budget agreements of that era, but more recently, reconciliation bills have passed only when one party had control of both houses of Congress and the presidency, enabling Republicans in particular to take maximum advantage of rare moments of one-party government, despite the distortions to policy created by the process. The complex web of limitations on reconciliation known as the Byrd Rule give the Senate parliamentarian, along with the Budget Office, enormous power over how and when the 50-vote process can be used and what amendments can be offered. While the parliamentarian acts as a neutral arbiter of the rules, the judgment calls are close, and the rule delegates an substantial amount of power to her over the substance of the law. Little about the Byrd Rule makes sense until you remember that its author, Senator Robert C. Byrd, had been a member or chairman of the Appropriations Committee for much of his career. The rule is intended to prevent the newer budget process from encroaching on the older centers of power. It’s been many years since the budget reconciliation process was employed as intended, to bring spending and taxes in line with a budget plan. It’s now a strange political weapon, extremely powerful but available only in certain limited and arbitrary circumstances. Its odd limits shape policy in ways that make no sense to citizens or even most senators, producing results driven by the quirks of the process rather than any consensus among lawmakers. While even these special rules weren’t enough to get Obamacare repeal through, the Senate should nonetheless rethink this bizarre process, along with the rules of the 60-vote Senate. Perhaps it would make sense to break the distinction between the 50- and 60-vote Senates, and settle on one process, one that gives individual senators and minority blocs ample opportunity to voice disagreement and offer amendments but that also ultimately allows a majority to achieve the policy goals that its members campaigned on. The Senate is never going to be perfectly democratic or majoritarian as long as a state with about 12 percent of the nation’s population (California) has the same two votes as a state with less than about 0.2 percent (Wyoming), but the closed and tightly controlled institution we’ve seen this week — and will see again — lacks even the small merits of the Senate the founders envisioned.