This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Phew. The effort to take health insurance from millions of people — an effort opposed by doctors, nurses, scientists, public-health workers and a strong majority of the American people — failed last night. It failed by the slimmest of margins: a single vote. It failed because every single Democratic senator voted against it, as did three Republicans, including an ailing John McCain of Arizona. Above all, it failed because Congressional Republicans and President Trump never developed a real health care plan. They developed a make-believe plan, made up of lies about Obamacare and talking points about their own plan that were unconnected to reality. “No repeal. No replace,” Peter Suderman of the libertarian Reason magazine wrote. “Despite years of promises, Republicans had no shared health policy goals.” Without a real plan, Mitch McConnell, Paul Ryan and other Congressional leaders couldn’t sell people on substance. They knew their bills were a slapdash attempt at keeping a promise — repeal Obamacare! — that would deprive millions of people of health coverage. So they instead tried to rush through a bill with unprecedented secrecy. The final vote, on a bill released only hours before, occurred after 2 a.m. This process, a more shocking violation of democratic norms than anything Anthony Scaramucci has done this week, is what finally flipped McCain. “We’ve tried to do this by coming up with a proposal behind closed doors in consultation with the administration, then springing it on skeptical members, trying to convince them it’s better than nothing, asking us to swallow our doubts and force it past a unified opposition,” McCain said, in his floor speech on Tuesday. “I don’t think that is going to work in the end.” The other two Republican no votes came from Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska. They understood that the various bills would do terrible damage to middle-class and lower-income families in their states. The three of them, and the 48 Democratic senators who remained unified throughout this process, deserve our gratitude. Many Americans — people with serious health problems, along with their relatives and friends, who have watched this long spectacle with great anxiety — are relieved this morning. Elsewhere: Today is the 52nd anniversary of the Senate passing Medicaid and Medicare, Emma Sandoe notes. Happy birthday indeed, Medicaid and Medicare. “Thank you my old friend,” John Weaver, the longtime McCain aide, tweeted last night. It’s also worth re-reading the tweetstorm earlier this week from Adam Jentleson, a former top aide to Harry Reid, which laid out McCain’s dilemma. Are these repeal efforts finally dead? Who knows. But John Harwood of CNBC notes that the Trump agenda is badly off schedule: “This is the point in the calendar at which GOP Congress had said both Obamacare repeal/replace and tax reform would be signed into law.” In The Times: I invite you to browse the selected works of Michiko Kakutani, who yesterday announced she was stepping down as chief book critic after 38 years here.