Yes, it’s true that Hillary Clinton got more votes, but he got the votes of more than 62 million people — and I am pretty sure I don’t know any of them. You can make a rude joke about Donald Trump in places like Washington and the Upper West Side of Manhattan, and be confident that nothing you say will give offense. It would be nice, I have long thought, to have an openly opinionated press as Britain does, with papers such as The Guardian in London. Instead of hiding their biases, writers and correspondents could say what they think, and readers could discount accordingly. Well, since Mr. Trump became a serious possibility for president, we have had that world I longed for, and I’m not so sure I want it. The New York Times, The Washington Post, CNN and other establishment outlets have been brazenly, laughably hostile to Mr. Trump, in their news pages as well as their opinion sections. Maybe this hostility is justified. In fact, I think it probably is. But that doesn’t justify reaching out to twist stories or looking for the anti-Trump angle. Nor does it justify the open hoping — if not assuming — that something will come along to rid us of this turbulent hotelier. Impeachment is supposed to be an occasional tragic necessity, not just another tool for replacing the results of an election. When Mr. Trump won, I prepared myself for an orgy of self-criticism by the liberal media, all wondering how they missed the amazing phenomenon of Mr. Trump’s popularity. We have seen some of that, of course. But not as much as one would imagine. Instead, there has been endless vilification of the guy and speculation about how we might get rid of him. All the vilification has actually numbed people’s reaction to the truly shocking possibility that Mr. Trump conspired with Russia to steal the 2016 election. It wasn’t so long ago that Alger Hiss went to jail, ostensibly for perjury but actually for slipping secret documents to the Russians. Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were executed for something similar. Now we open the newspaper or turn on the TV news every day to learn of one more person who squeezed into the increasingly crowded room where the conspiracy was allegedly going on. Earlier this year, The New York Times allowed me to ask its readers, “Is there nothing nice you can say about the man who, after all, is our president?” The nearly 2,000 emailed responses we got in the first month were generally tongue-in-cheek, along the lines of a joke: In his awfulness, he has united the nation in disliking him. This would be a better joke if it were true. Another large category was people who praised him ironically for breaking some campaign promise, such as saying he would deport the Dreamers. These contributions usually ended with the word “yet” or its equivalent. Mr. Trump is praised for having resisted (so far) the urge to fire Robert Mueller. And for having, until recently, “stopped threatening to prosecute Hillary Clinton.” And because he has “dropped (at least for the moment) his claim that his Trump Tower phones were tapped.” An alarming number of readers demanded that their subscriptions be canceled because this one pro-Trump article appeared in a daily sea of antagonism to him. Should it really count as pro-Trump to say, well, he’s done this one good thing among all the bad things? And, of course, one reader noted that Mr. Trump had revived the newspaper industry by being so distasteful. Similarly, a writer praised the president for encouraging “a diverse group of Americans to look beyond our own, often narrow agendas and come together to fight this administration’s attempts to institutionalize injustice at every turn.” I suppose, if you were Donald Trump, you could read that as a compliment. A few participants were overtaken by events. “I did like the bombing of the Syrian airfield,” one writer cheerily conceded. She said this reflected the president’s willingness to “draw a line.” Unfortunately, Mr. Trump (with Vladimir Putin’s help) erased that line in the weeks between when the writer wrote us and now. A suspicious number of people wrote in to praise President Trump’s choice of James Mattis as defense secretary. The Mattis fan club is either very large or very well organized. Which is good because the Defense Department could use one that is both. I couldn’t tell if some entries were joking or not. “Before Trump,” one person wrote, somewhat mysteriously, “I didn’t know anything about the awesomeness of Maxine Waters.” Maxine Waters has been awesome for many years, but is she supposed to be happy that opposing President Trump has given her a higher profile? Maybe so. Another ambiguous one: “I admit I find Donald Trump charismatic, and he has an admirable sense of comic timing.” And, he “is very skilled at keeping his name in the news. He has also succeeded in business and politics with what appears to be very few intellectual gifts.” Mr. Trump’s ethnicity pleased one person, but with a barb. “His mother is from Scotland,” and yet “his teeth seem good.” This despite the fact that “the man appreciates quality baked goods.” And “for a fat guy, he doesn’t sweat much.” Then of course there’s his hair. “He makes me feel good that I have the head of hair that I do,” one braggart wrote, while another simply expressed admiration: “He has an amazing comb-over.” I could go on quoting for quite a while. “He doesn’t have a dog, which is a service to all dogs.” But I think by now we’ve made our point. Or rather, we’ve supplied enough material for anyone who wishes to make his or her own point. As my research assistant in this project, Izzy Rode, observed, the vitriol tended to weaken as the weeks went on — vitriol against Mr. Trump, against The New York Times, against me. This is a common phenomenon on the internet. The rage generally isn’t sustainable, and inevitably starts to get repetitive. Gosh, you know really he’s not so bad. No, wait, he’s pretty bad. And I don’t say that about just anyone.