VALERIE MONROE They have floor-to-ceiling windows, my neighbors across the street, and they seldom use their shades. My apartment is a couple of floors up and a wide street away. Not so wide that I can’t see many of the details inside their home. Several years ago, I watched them move in: a petite blond woman about my age and her husband. SYDNEY STERN We loved our new apartment’s giant windows but wondered what we should do about the building across the street. We were used to taking off our clothes when we got home, and it didn’t take long to decide that if the price of watching the river and the sunsets was living in a fishbowl, it was worth it. Besides (we told ourselves) this is Manhattan. We are anonymous. And if folks find the comings and goings of 65-year-old grandparents entertaining, so be it. VAL The husband seemed to favor boxer shorts. I often saw him late at night face down at the kitchen table as if he had had too much to drink or had fallen dead asleep in the chair. One night he remained there for so long I considered calling 911. Anyway, he hadn’t died; the next evening I saw him stripping down to his underwear. Some mornings, she exercised to a video at the foot of their bed, preferring either flesh-toned lingerie or nudity, I couldn’t tell. I have binoculars but didn’t want to use them — that would’ve been creepy. More details: They had occasional overnight guests, short ones, so I assumed they had grandchildren. He had hip or knee surgery and recovered quickly; he often strolled around the terrace, first with a cane and shortly after without. I missed them when they went away and was always happy to see their lights come back on. They were my no-name neighbors and I was as fond of them as if I actually knew them. SYDNEY About three years after we moved in, we sent e-vites to a party celebrating the publication of a friend’s book. VAL I immediately noticed the address. Would I like to celebrate the publication of my friend’s book at a party in their home? Would I! I emailed my R.S.V.P. “I think I know you,” I wrote. “Are you a smallish blonde who likes to walk around in her underwear? Does your husband favor red boxers? Does he often fall asleep face down at the kitchen table? Did your husband recently have hip or knee surgery?” SYDNEY Reading the catalog of intimate details was simultaneously hilarious and mortifying. I jumped out of my chair and ran out of the room with my hands over my face, as if getting out of sight of the computer would get me out of sight, too. VAL “Yes, yes, yes and yes,” she wrote back. They didn’t like to cover their floor-to-ceiling windows, she said. They had beautiful views. (I knew that — I could see the gorgeous play of light as it moved through their apartment.) “How much can you actually see?” she asked. “Well,” I replied, “a lot.” SYDNEY Val and I exchanged more emails. We had many things in common — both of us writers, mothers of sons. She offered to forgo the party, in case we wanted to try to preserve our anonymity. “No way you’re not coming,” I told her. I wanted to meet her. We already had leapfrogged to a weird zone of intimacy. When I told my other friends about her email, they asked, “Why did she tell you?” The question horrified me. Of course I’d want to know. Being watched by a stranger was a risk we’d knowingly assumed. Being watched without our knowledge by an acquaintance would be creepy. One of the reasons I liked Val immediately was that she obviously understood that. And yet once I knew she was out there, I became profoundly uncomfortable. I was onstage. I began to live in the third person, narrating a running commentary: “Now she’s got her coffee … now she’s making her bed … getting on her coat.” VAL I had no intention of turning away from my own windows, probably the most arresting aspect of my small apartment, to accommodate their privacy. I assured Syd I didn’t spend all my time peering at them, but rather couldn’t avoid seeing them when I gazed out. But now that they knew I could see them, I, too, felt self-conscious, like an unwanted houseguest. The trouble was, I was in my own house. SYDNEY As I saw it, I had three alternatives. I could use the shades. I could keep my clothes on and do nothing in front of the windows I wouldn’t do on the street. Or I could find a way to adjust. I decided to quit thinking about myself as if I were on display. I, too, would become a spectator. I just had to learn to look back. Val and I had agreed we would wave whenever we saw each other. VAL At the book party, Syd introduced me as “Val, the neighbor across the street who can see us in our underwear.” I located the lights I’d left on in my apartment so I could judge how much Syd could see. More than I’d thought, so now I pick up the pace going topless from my closet to the bedroom. (Good defenses make good neighbors.) At the same time, I find I don’t glance their way as often as I did. Since I met them, they feel comfortably like family. Also, often like family, boring. Whatever interest I’d had in watching them evaporated once I knew them. It was the puzzle of trying to piece together the details of their life that had drawn me toward their windows. On a recent sunny morning I saw Syd on her terrace, tending her garden. She looked up and waved. I happily waved back. SYDNEY Wait, we’re boring? We’ll have to do something about that.