It had been more than a week since Dang Nguyet Anh learned of a Vietcong attack in Phuoc Long Province, northeast of Saigon along the Cambodian border, where her husband was stationed. She had yet to hear from him, and the waiting soon became more than she should bear. So she took a bus from her home in Saigon to the town of Dong Xoai, where she got a lift on an army vehicle heading to the training center where her husband was. On the way, Vietcong troops attacked the vehicle, and she was shot in both arms and suffered a broken foot. From her hospital bed back in Saigon, Mrs. Anh wrote a letter to South Vietnam’s Ministry of National Defense, asking that her husband, a second lieutenant named Nguyen Thanh Trac, be transferred to the city so that he could live at home and help take care of their six young children. The letter, which she wrote in mid-1965, was just one of many that the Defense Ministry received from family members asking for their men to be reassigned to units closer to home, moved from combat positions in the field to desk jobs in Saigon or released from service. It’s a striking document, illustrating just how blurred the lines between battlefield and home front, and between civilian and combatant, became for South Vietnamese during the war. Those blurred lines were a big problem for Saigon; family obligations were one of the main reasons for desertion from the Army of the Republic of Vietnam. And so, around the same time the Ministry of National Defense received Mrs. Anh’s letter, it created the Women’s Armed Forces Corps to help out families whose husbands and sons were off fighting. Advertisement By 1967, there were more than 2,700 women in the all-female unit. And yet we know precious little about those women and their experiences — or about the wartime experiences of South Vietnamese women generally. Aside from a few quasi-mythical figures like Le Thi Hong Gam, a young Vietcong sharpshooter who allegedly downed an American helicopter, their names and lives are absent from the war’s history. But even more than in other wars, the experiences of women need to be understood because of the way that the combat front and the home front overlapped. Unlike women in the Vietcong or the North Vietnamese Army, the women of the W.A.F.C. did not enter combat; instead, they did administrative, intelligence, medical and social work jobs, freeing men for combat and providing support for their families. To become an officer in the corps, women had to have completed 11 years of school, and enlisted women needed at least five years of formal school. Officers served four-year tours; enlistees committed to three years. Recruits had to be unmarried and stay so for their first two years of service. After that, they could marry and have children without being discharged. The corps’s social welfare division ministered to army families, providing child care, basic health care and pharmaceutical services. That the corps’s members were in the South Vietnamese Army but doing “women’s work” illustrates one of the ways in which the Vietnam War expanded gender roles without completely transforming them. And yet those roles were changing, as a war-era booklet published by the Vietnam Council on Foreign Relations titled “South Vietnam’s Women in Uniform” explained. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “Traditionally, the role of the Asian woman is a passive one,” wrote Phuong Thi Hanh, the author. “Kept in the background, girls are raised to be feminine and dependent, to stay at home caring for husband and family. Twenty years ago, the idea of a female soldier was even more far-fetched than that of a woman doctor or lawyer. But years of war have brought women into a man’s world, partly by necessity, partly by choice.” And indeed, more change was afoot. After the 1968 Tet offensive, legislators introduced a bill in the National Assembly to draft all women aged 18 to 25, but it was sunk by conservative assembly members. Still, there were other avenues available: Women who wanted to take up arms could receive training in weapons and military tactics with their local People’s Self-Defense Force unit. Hanh estimated that by 1970, one million women served in these militia units, more than 100,000 of them in combat roles. Even undertaking advanced training did not make a servicewoman eligible for a combat position. Although women could serve in militia combat positions, Nguyen Hong Nguyet, the commissioner of a Saigon self-defense unit, told Hanh that women were best suited for support roles. In 1970, a group of women in the W.A.F.C. completed the difficult Airborne School program, parachuting out of airplanes wearing fatigues as their male counterparts did. But as Hanh described them in her booklet, the “daredevil girls” would not have careers “dropping into combat zones.” Maj. Ho Thi Ve, commander of the W.A.F.C. training school, said the servicewomen took the airborne course for fitness and fun. Southern women enlisted for all the same reasons men did. Of the women Hanh interviewed, some wanted to help the war effort, while others saw the military as a viable career path. The lure of adventure also drew women to the W.A.F.C. When Ha Thi Tuoi graduated from high school, she enlisted in the corps and was assigned to an army dependents camp at Tan Son Nhut Air Base. Lieutenant Tuoi enjoyed her work, but she saw it as a temporary detour on the road to a more traditional woman’s life. She was engaged to an architecture student, and she planned to leave the military once she had a child. It was what her fiancé wanted. Yet even homemakers could support the war effort. Women’s magazines such as Phu Nu Moi (New Woman) encouraged readers to pitch in. The magazine, published weekly in Saigon from 1966 to 1975, mainly ran serial novels, advice columns, and fashion, beauty and celebrity news, but each issue opened with an editorial that dealt with politics, the military and how women could support the war effort. Editorials showcased women in the military, and encouraged women to donate needed items to troops and, after the Tet offensive, participate in their local self-defense units. Advertisement Articles also stressed the importance of women’s political action, especially in the lead-up to the 1967 election that put Nguyen Van Thieu in the presidency. An editorial in July 1967 asserted that women were equally important to men in ensuring that democracy would thrive in South Vietnam. A September edition went further in emphasizing the importance of women to the democratic process: Women’s political activism would highlight the progress and maturity of South Vietnam and would advance gender equality. The new woman was to be politically engaged, aware of the plight of the less fortunate and willing to help out through fund-raising or other types of advocacy. The consequences of the war on rural women should not be far from her mind. It was up to middle-class urban women to demand that the government create programs to help rural women and their families. Bettering rural women’s lives would help counter another social issue new women should be concerned about — the rise of prostitution that accompanied the growth of foreign troops in South Vietnam. The historian Nathalie Huynh Chau Nguyen has interviewed W.A.F.C. veterans about their lives after the war, and she found that while they avoided the worst of the anti-Southern crackdown, many of them faced harassment by the new government and its security forces. They watched in fear as their husbands and brothers were arrested and sent to re-education camps. Some women fled Vietnam and spent time in refugee camps before settling in Australia or the United States. Army wives, too, lost their husbands to re-education camps, sometimes for years. If that was the fate of Dang Nguyet Anh, it would have marked at least the second time she was on her own with her children. But after the war, there were no W.A.F.C. social workers to help her. Heather Stur is an associate professor of history at the University of Southern Mississippi and a fellow at the Dale Center for the Study of War and Society. She is a co-editor of “Integrating the U.S. Military: Race, Gender and Sexual Orientation Since World War II” and the author of “Beyond Combat: Women and Gender in the Vietnam War Era.” Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 