In 1958, Willem de Kooning rented a studio on the top floor of a handsome four-story cast-iron building at 831 Broadway, between 12th and 13th Streets. He converted an industrial space in the building, erected in 1866, into a painter’s loft before the term became synonymous with the studio spaces of artists a little farther south, in the SoHo neighborhood. Over the next few years, de Kooning painted in this studio some of the iconic works of the movement that became known as Abstract Expressionism. His “Rosy-Fingered Dawn at Louse Point” was the first of his paintings to be acquired by a European museum, and his “Door to the River” is now in the Whitney Museum of American Art. But the elegant structure in which de Kooning and his wife, Elaine, lived and painted may soon be gone. Despite protests by preservationists, elected officials and neighbors, two developers, Quality Capital and the Caerus Group, intend to demolish it and build a 14-story tower. (Caerus is the Greek god of opportunity and luck who seizes favorable moments.) In August 2016, the Landmarks Preservation Commission rejected an application to protect 831 Broadway and its next-door twin, 827. According to its director of research at the time, the commission decided that New York already had enough buildings with “earlier cast-iron facades” and that “there are buildings on Broadway of a similar date, type and style” to represent this era of development in New York. Fortunately, the commission has recently agreed to reconsider that decision, and the developers have agreed to withdraw their application for a demolition permit pending the reconsideration. Now the commissioners must decide whether to take the first formal step toward considering the buildings for landmark status and vote to “calendar” them — put them on the docket for active consideration for designation — which would be followed by a public hearing and a vote. But that still raises a question: Does New York really have enough “similar” cast-iron buildings so that these 151-year-old buildings are not deserving of protection? As it happens, these particular buildings played an important role in the development of the city, one that suggests a history that is not similar to every other cast-iron building. De Kooning, who immigrated from the Netherlands, was part of a movement of artists who shifted the cultural leadership of the art world from Europe to New York. His presence attracted other Abstract Expressionist painters, among them Larry Poons and Paul Jenkins, who had studios in 827 or 831 Broadway for many years. De Kooning no doubt chose his studio because it had a high ceiling, a large skylight and east-facing windows overlooking Broadway. The photographer Dan Budnik described his impressions of de Kooning’s studio when he arrived for a 10-day photo shoot in 1962: “Walking into his studio was like entering a New York artist’s dream space. Daylight from skylights and large front windows reflected off white walls and a polished natural wood floor, creating a proper balance in the ambient light: I was in a photographer’s heaven.” The history and impact of these two buildings on the cultural and economic life of New York and America goes back even further and deeper. They were built by Pierre Lorillard III, the grandson of the founder of the tobacco company. His grandfather had rented a house on what is now Park Row in Lower Manhattan and was the first maker of snuff in America. An avowed patriot, he was shot to death in 1776 by Hessian mercenaries during the British occupation of the city. After the Civil War, New York increasingly became the center of commerce for the nation. Retailing and manufacturing expanded and, needing more space, proceeded to move uptown from the Wall Street area. Pierre Lorillard hired Griffith Thomas, “the most fashionable architect of his generation,” as the American Institute of Architects said in 1908, to build twin cast-iron buildings with retail, office and manufacturing space, a mixed-use building 100 years before the term became a real estate cliché. A master of the Italianate style, Thomas designed symmetrical rows of arched windows separated by fluted columns and topped by decorative elements such as cornices and torches that the new technology of iron casting made possible. These buildings appear almost unchanged today. Just as de Kooning represented a break with the artistic tradition of the past, Thomas’s buildings for Lorillard harked back to the elegant Italian villas of the Renaissance while at the same time providing the city with retailing and manufacturing expansion space. Shortly after the buildings opened, they became the New York offices of Wheeler & Wilson Manufacturing. Allan Wilson invented some of the first successful sewing machines and revolutionized clothing manufacturing. From the 1860s until today, New York has been the center of the country’s fashion industry, whether manufacturing uniforms for Union soldiers or designing American-made haute couture gowns for first ladies. In more recent years, the twin buildings became known to many New Yorkers for their more direct reference to the past. They stand in what was for many years New York’s book and antiques district. Except for the Strand bookstore across the street and a few antique dealers on the side streets, most of these businesses have had to yield to the restaurants, clothing boutiques and banks flooding the area. For more than three decades, Howard Kaplan Antiques occupied the ground floor and a Parisian-style club, La Belle Époque, the second. According to a 1981 article in People magazine about the Kaplan store, Faye Dunaway flipped over a five-foot-long iron clock made into a coffee table, Jackie Onassis browsed and purchased a peasant broom, Robert De Niro “coughed up $3,000 for antique bathroom fixtures like the ones in ‘Raging Bull,’ ” and Johnny Carson’s wife bought a 200-year-old opium table made into a breakfast tray. A joy of strolling the streets of New York is to see so many varied edifices. When you meander in the Village or Harlem or Chelsea or almost any other neighborhood, you are likely to stumble upon a unique and historic building. We understand that New York is continually changing, but what makes so many people want to live or visit here is the sense of excitement and discovery in the streets. The Lorillard buildings add dignity and grandeur to the city. One does not have to be a student of architecture to admire the craftsmanship of artisans using hand tools a century and a half ago. These old buildings are like New York’s senior citizens and should be venerated as such, not cast aside. Other cities create replica historic wharves or colonial markets to attract visitors. New York doesn’t have to create them — we have them, and for the health of the city, we should preserve them.