I hoist my carry-on into overhead storage, hoping I won’t drop a suitcase packed with an espresso machine on the man who offered to help. “I think I’ve got this,” I say, unsure of my volume. The new noise-canceling headphones make talking awkward, but like sunglasses, they’re vital to my survival. Middle seat, seventh row, I quadruple-check: The Xanax is in my purse. This is my attempt to be fine. I’ve had anxiety attacks for 20 years. They started when I was 13, a fun perk of anorexia, buy one get one free. Anorexia became bulimia and the attacks persisted, rattling like odd pennies in a piggy bank until a few years ago a new therapist compounded my diagnosis: eating disorder (not otherwise specified) with comorbid dysthymia and generalized anxiety disorder. In-flight panic, though, is new-new. Lately, every tilt of the ailerons, every whiff of fuel, will cause me to periscope in my seat, searching the flight attendants’ eyes for concern. Every human with two cellphones will make me think: terrorist? Even as the aircraft reaches cruising altitude, my anxiety will escalate. I’ll dry-heave in the lavatory, splashing my face with non-potable water. It’s not until the plane lands that I’ll take an unobstructed breath. The woman in the seventh-row window seat studies a folio. Beside her I fuss, trying to make my personal space impervious to fear, opening my purse, ponytailing my hair, wedging a book in the seat back, finding my phone, tapping the beaming infant icon of Noobie Soothie, the white-noise app I bought when I got the headphones. But I’m too nervous to open the Xanax. Lots of people take it, my therapist told me. I paid for the prescription, the headphones, the Noobie Soothie, but I wasn’t happy. I deciphered the receipts with a self-deprecating magic decoder ring: You’re getting worse. You can’t strong-arm yourself into neurotypicality. Some days, you don’t even like to buy food. Maybe flying with anxiety is too much for you. You don’t need Xanax, I tell myself in Row 7. Your armaments against anxiety are strong enough. I stow my purse and close my eyes behind my sunglasses. Static crashes in my headphones, and for a moment, my mind hushes. “Ladies and gentleman, we’re a completely full flight,” the attendant says. I blink. Someone has unwrapped something tuna. The aisle is choked with people frowning at the prospects for their baggage. My pulse migrates from my chest to my throat. The last occupant of the seventh row arrives. The man who takes the aisle seat next to me looks about my age. He’s tall, walleyed and bushy browed. Cologne, khakis. He does human things: clicks his seatbelt, reaches into a pocket, places a phone on the armrest between us. Then, contorting, he goes to another pocket and sets another phone facedown on his thigh. Two phones. It’s clear: We’re doomed. Here’s what happens in my pre-takeoff anxiety attack: The man toggles between devices, glancing — deviously, I decide. My heart batters that hush from two minutes ago. I throw side-eye behind my sunglasses. I read my neighbor’s texts. They’re in an app with orange bubbles, in an alphabet I don’t recognize. I twist and turn in my seat, giraffe my neck, telekinetically press the “call flight attendant” button, gulp enough air to inflate a balloon, cloud my sunglasses with tears, sweat through my dress, think: This is it, the plane will be hijacked, I’ll die, and my fear that flying in an airplane is reckless and dumb will be confirmed. “Cabin doors closed for departure.” I emit a low, nauseated-animal noise, like a cow going, “Oh, god.” The two-phoned man turns and in a soft voice asks, “Are you O.K.?” I shake my head and stumble toward the cockpit, where a flight attendant brews coffee. I’m panting. That same cow groan happens again. “I’m having an anxiety attack,” I tell her. “There’s a man with two phones.” “What’s going on, honey? Deeeeeeeep breaths.” My mouth trembles. My eyes dart. My heart somersaults into my brain. “I have to get off the plane,” I say. The flight attendant asks if I have luggage and I follow her to the seventh row. I struggle to pull down my carry-on and the man with two phones asks if he can help. “Sure.” I am too shocked at what I’ve done to look at him; everyone on the plane is too shocked at what I’m doing to stop looking at me. I drag my bag up the jet bridge and stand at the empty gate, winded. Stranded. And headphones blasting white noise at my neck. Also, I’m broke. When my bulimia was at its worst, I used to see the ice cream I’d purged in the kitchen sink and think of all the money I’d vomited over the years. I realize now that it can cost just as much to “manage” a mental illness, like I do, as it does to treat it medically. Last year, Health Affairs reported mental disorders cost the United States more than any other medical condition: in 2013, $203 billion. That $203 billion accounts for psychologists, psychiatrists, inpatient and outpatient treatment, hypnosis, medication, but what about the staggering expenses the figure could never include, the private hacks people like me make to MacGyver life? Headphones. Noobie Soothie. One-thousand-dollar replacement tickets. That’s what it comes down to, in the end. I’m traveling across the country: I can’t become the grown-up Eloise of the airport hotel. No bus, train or rental car solves the cost-risk-time equation better than a plane. When anxiety is related to death (mine is), of course it’s about life, which means it’s obsessed with choice, and therefore fixated on money. But being stingy with self-care (when you can afford it) is a dangerous habit to cultivate. It’s gambling with karma: Not everyone will be able to afford these hacks. Twenty minutes later, I head to the ticketing counter, buy two new tickets, and by the time I go through security again, I’m not just telling myself to be brave, I’m remembering that I’m grateful. Grateful there are more flights. Grateful to have a credit card and a steady job so I can pay it off. Grateful to be healthy enough to be trying to keep anxiety from ruling my life. I am even grateful when my carry-on is inspected, again. I ask for a female T.S.A. agent — my bag is an explosion of loose tampons — and we go to a glassed-in privacy room. The agent hefts my bag onto the table and I apologize for its weight. The espresso machine. She swabs the machine with a blue-gloved finger. “This is my favorite,” she says. “Expensive, but, yah know, worth it.” I’m cleared and together we struggle with the zipper. “It’s possible,” I say. “Another agent and I did it a couple hours ago.” The agent is sympathetic when I explain how I’ve already gone through security. I tell her everything, about the man, the phones, the second set of tickets, the Xanax I didn’t take. She doesn’t back away or hurry me along. She pauses, talking to me like a big sister. “You have to take Xanax,” she says. “I do. Even half before shift. Lotta crazy people out there. Take a Xanax and get some wine. You gotta do that.” I’ve been warned about mixing Xanax and alcohol. It’s a no-no. But I thank her anyway. And I think about how, back in eighth grade, when I was trying to recover from anorexia, I kept quarters in my pencil case. I told friends it was my “assertiveness fund.” It was money for a snack or if I ever worked up the nerve to have a regular Coke. I still haven’t had a regular Coke, but when I board my next plane, I pop a pill. I shake a coin from the piggy bank.