This week, President Vladimir Putin announced that 755 employees of United States diplomatic facilities in Russia will be booted from their jobs. What that portends for long-term relations between the two countries is unclear. What it means — at least in part — for the skeleton crew of American diplomats that will remain is: Who’s going to answer the phones, mop the floors, drive the cars, run the cafeteria and sort the mail now? Strangely enough, the United States Embassy in Moscow faced that exact same question three decades ago. Remember Clayton Lonetree? A young Marine guard stationed at the embassy in the mid-1980s, Sergeant Lonetree made the mistake of falling in love with a seductive Russian woman named Violetta Seina, who turned out to be a K.G.B. spy. Like a lovesick character in a John Le Carré novel, Sergeant Lonetree passed Ms. Seina secret blueprints and documents, and upon being found out he was court-martialed and sentenced to 30 years in prison. The Lonetree affair capped a tumultuous few months in which the Soviet and United States governments ejected workers, tit for tat, from each other’s diplomatic facilities. By late 1986, there were no more Soviet employees working at the American Embassy in Moscow. Suddenly, there were no secretaries, janitors, drivers or nannies. Who would fill those jobs? Who could possibly be interested in doing such prosaic work, at a negligible salary, in the harsh climate of Moscow during the Cold War? Me, for one. As I was about to graduate with my not-terribly-practical B.A. in Russian language and literature, a professor told me about a United States diplomatic family that needed a nanny for its coming tour in Moscow. I sent the family a letter, taking care to include a photo of me smiling happily in a Mickey Mouse sweatshirt, and after a couple of months of snail-mail correspondence, they offered me the job of caring for their 1-year-old. In August 1988, I landed in Moscow. The United States Embassy compound, then as now, is like a small city. Built in the early 1980s, surrounded by a high brick wall, it has an underground concourse with a grocery store, a bowling alley, a barbershop, a gym, and a swimming pool. Rows of apartments line two sides with a grassy field in the middle. And looming over one side, providing a perfect view of the compound for Russian spies, is one of the “Seven Sisters” – one of seven spectacular Gothic skyscrapers built across Moscow during the Stalin era. At the embassy, I found myself surrounded by smart young Americans, most of whom had been hired by Pacific Architects and Engineers, the company that had won the contract to quickly fill all those vacated jobs. They’d found 20-somethings like Josh, a recent Berkeley graduate who came to Moscow to drive a delivery truck, and Nancy, a fluent Russian speaker who now did menial and secretarial work at Spaso House, the ambassador’s residence. We were an excited bunch of Russophiles, eager to explore Russia and improve our language skills. But the embassy’s security personnel had other ideas. Shortly after arriving, I had my first briefing with the State Department security team. It was like a primer for Cold War paranoia: The compound is shot through with listening devices, they told me — the legacy of a 1970s diplomatic blunder in which the United States agreed to allow Soviet workers to construct the buildings. Don’t say anything you don’t want the Soviets to hear, they said. Never meet with a Soviet alone. Fill out reports on the people you meet with, including everything you talked about. Never have any kind of intimate relations with a Soviet. And tell us immediately if you know anyone else at the embassy who has — because if you don’t, and we find out you knew, you’ll be in just as much trouble as they are. That was the moment when I realized our people would be watching and listening to us every bit as closely as the Soviets were. If this seemed like overkill, I quickly learned that it wasn’t. Over the course of my time at the embassy, all kinds of strange episodes occurred. One Saturday, while I was on a sightseeing trip to Leningrad, a Russian stranger sidled up to me and murmured, “So, how’s everything at the embassy?” (A classic K.G.B. move, a diplomat later told me, to “let you know they’re watching.”) Another time, a new Russian friend — a pianist at the Moscow Conservatory, whom I’d met by chance in the Metro — referred to plans I had for the following weekend, although I hadn’t yet told him about them. Even more ominously, after I tipsily confessed to a fellow American that I’d had a girlfriend in college, a pretty Russian woman started showing up at embassy parties and chatting flirtatiously with me. Was she a K.G.B. agent, sent to seduce me just as Violetta Seina seduced Clayton Lonetree? Or was I just imagining things? It was impossible to know for sure. I spent seven fascinating, exciting, deeply weird months of 1988 and 1989 living and working at the United States Embassy in Moscow. In the nearly 30 years that have passed since then, I’ve returned to Russia repeatedly, watching as Cold War enmity gave way to tentative friendship in the mid-1990s, then to something chillier in the 2000s, and then swinging right back around to a kind of Cold War 2.0 today. It remains to be seen whether President Putin will eventually permit any new hires to take on the newly vacated jobs. If he does, it seems likely that whoever takes them will find themselves laboring in the same kind of strange, sad paranoia we found back then.