Shortly before my 15-month-old son, Prince, was murdered by his father, Joaquin Rams, in 2012, I started a blog. Mr. Rams had been an abusive partner, and I was fighting for custody of our son. I wanted to chronicle the horrors of family court, and the challenges that abuse victims face in the justice system. I wasn’t sure with whom my story would resonate. I only knew I needed to share what had happened to me. I was surprised that one group of women I heard frequently from was the wives and partners of American military veterans. My child’s father wasn’t in the military, so I wasn’t intimately acquainted with stories like theirs. Now I am. And I see all too clearly how this country can fail veterans’ families. The Department of Veterans Affairs has cited research that says that 81 percent of veterans suffering from depression and post-traumatic stress disorder engage in at least one violent act against a partner after returning home. Many of these veterans didn’t leave their families as abusers, but returned as a dangerous threat to their wives and children. Our society focuses on supporting the wounded warriors, the men and women who come home from Iraq or Afghanistan with physical and emotional injuries. At the same time, we avoid thinking about the long-term support their families need as a result of these injuries. But these families have also sacrificed, and every child has the right to a safe environment. As a survivor of domestic abuse and the mother of a baby murdered by his father — and a friend and confidante to several of these women — I have come to realize how much more the military must do to help. I’ve talked with over a dozen women, each with her own horrific version of an eerily similar story. Shanna Richardson’s is in some ways typical: Ms. Richardson became the caregiver of her husband, an Army infantryman, after he suffered a traumatic brain injury during his final deployment in Iraq. She ended up leaving her husband after one particularly awful night in 2012. “He pulled a butcher knife out of the drawer and asked me if I ever wondered what it would be like to be stabbed,” she told me. Then he cut her throat. When her head was slammed against the concrete floor of their home, Ms. Richardson was knocked unconscious. She woke in an ambulance, and filed for divorce shortly after. As a result of this attack, she now suffers from permanent brain injuries. Her ex-husband was convicted of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, but was still entitled to veterans disability and health benefits. Ms. Richardson, meanwhile, doesn’t get even health insurance from the military. The possibility of losing benefits or being ostracized from their communities or forced to leave their children alone with abusers drives many abused women to stay married, which is why the military should provide for them after a divorce. Instead, many of the women I’ve talked to said the military acted as if domestic abuse was an expected part of being married to a soldier. “I was told that I should seek help elsewhere, and to ‘buck up’ because this is how things would be from now on,” Chelsie Antunez said. She’d called a veteran services help line when her husband, an Army veteran, started physically abusing her after he returned from deployment with a brain injury. It is understandable that the military wouldn’t want to encourage women to leave marriages. But denying health benefits to a woman who flees abuse sends a dangerous message and punishes a population of women and children who have been indirectly harmed by military combat. In response to widespread child abuse among military families, the Pentagon created a prevention program. That sounds promising, but it doesn’t always work. In 2011, an Army sergeant, Crispen Hanson, was ordered into the program after severely beating his infant son, Malachi. He completed the therapy, the program’s workers closed the case, and a state judge allowed Mr. Hanson to see Malachi again. Three months later, Mr. Hanson killed the boy. He pleaded guilty to injuring a child and was sentenced to probation. The Army gave him an honorable discharge and his full pension of $28,000 a year. The military must do better for these families. If a veteran sustains a brain injury as a result of war and returns home to abuse his wife, partner or children, the injuries that his family sustains should be considered an extension of the veteran’s original injury. The family should be afforded medical benefits, a place to live away from the abuser, and legal assistance. This will keep children safe.