The Department of Education is taking a hard look at its policies on campus sexual assault. The result may make colleges safer. For rapists. Right now, under the federal civil rights law Title IX, colleges and universities that receive public funds must use a standard of proof known as a “preponderance of evidence” when judging sexual misconduct complaints. If the evidence shows that the misconduct more likely than not occurred, the student accused of assault will be disciplined accordingly under the school’s code of conduct. This standard of proof has been required by the Department of Education for decades, but school enforcement was lax. So in 2011 the Obama administration formally reminded school administrators of their legal duty under Title IX to respond to sexual assault allegations promptly and equitably, and prescribed specific measures to fulfill this duty — one of which was an explicit reiteration that schools must use the preponderance standard. Objections to this approach have long been part of a broad effort to dismantle measures established under President Barack Obama to address sexual violence. Now, Betsy DeVos, the education secretary, may rescind the preponderance mandate, something she can do unilaterally, with a stroke of her pen. This would be a grave mistake. Women ages 18 to 24 are more likely to be sexually assaulted than any other segment of the American population. Many of these potential victims are college students, thousands of whom are attacked each year. Disturbing numbers of transgender and gender-nonconforming students are also victimized, as well as male students. University officials, like officials in elementary and secondary schools, must continue to be allowed to identify and expel students who pose a threat on campus, without waiting many months, or even years, for the criminal justice system to handle the cases. Recently Ms. DeVos declared that “a system without due process ultimately serves no one.” We have no quarrel with this statement. But the preponderance standard doesn’t curtail due process. There is nothing inappropriate or unusual about schools’ using it. Before 2011, in fact, most colleges and universities were already using that standard for disciplinary proceedings, including those for rape allegations. A few schools employed much higher burdens of proof, such as “clear and convincing evidence” and “beyond a reasonable doubt” — approaches that skewed the disciplinary process sharply in favor of the accused. “Preponderance of evidence” is the burden of proof used in almost all civil lawsuits, even those seeking compensation after violent crimes. Indeed, it’s the standard used in civil courts when male students expelled for sexual misconduct sue their schools under Title IX, alleging reverse gender discrimination. It would violate the principle of fairness at the heart of Title IX to allow accused men to win discrimination claims using the preponderance standard but require their accusers (who are mostly female) to prove they were victimized under a more stringent standard. Title IX treats campus sexual misconduct as a civil rights violation, which has led some to demand that campus rape allegations be handled by law enforcement agencies instead of schools. But a Title IX disciplinary proceeding doesn’t preclude victims from pursuing criminal charges. Many victims refuse to go to the police, however, because the criminal justice system is designed to favor defendants over their accusers. Not only must the prosecution prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but the defendant is presumed at trial to be innocent — which encourages scrutiny of the accuser, who is inevitably portrayed by the defense as the one who’s really to blame. Thanks to the extremely high burden of proof required to obtain a criminal conviction, along with significant procedural advantages given to defendants and the historical bias against female accusers that still exists in many police departments and state courts, less than 6 percent of rapes end up being prosecuted, and less than 3 percent culminate in a conviction that includes any time behind bars. It’s no mystery why 80 percent of campus sexual assaults are never reported to the police. Sex-crime trials, like all criminal proceedings, set an extremely high bar for conviction to diminish the chance that an innocent person will be unjustly incarcerated. In contrast, the harshest penalty a university can inflict in a Title IX hearing is expulsion, an outcome that does not demand such a stringent burden of proof. In these hearings, neither party is favored, and by leveling the procedural playing field, Title IX makes it more likely that students will report sexual violence. Attending college is a privilege, not a right. Colleges and universities are given free rein to determine which applicants they accept as students and which they turn away. Schools are also allowed to establish codes of conduct that every student must follow, and are granted broad discretion about how to respond when students violate this code. Title IX merely requires these codes to include sexual misconduct. Whenever a student is accused of sexual assault, university administrators need to render their judgment with tremendous care, because erroneously determining that a student is responsible for sexual misconduct can cause lasting harm. But just as much care needs to be taken to make sure that students who commit sexual assault are not let off the hook. One of us is a survivor of campus rape who became a lawyer and established a national nonprofit group to help other survivors find justice; one of us is the author of a book about the real-world complexities of campus sexual assault that make such justice so elusive. Both of us are concerned that Ms. DeVos is about to make it even more difficult to hold student perpetrators accountable. Allowing guilty students to dodge responsibility sustains the myth that victims routinely cry rape to exact revenge, or get attention, or assuage regret the morning after. Branded liars or dismissed as crazy, victims are thus shamed, humiliated and marginalized, worsening the soul-crushing trauma that is a byproduct of sexual violence. And make no mistake: Women are raped vastly more often than men are falsely accused. Campus sexual assault is a national scourge. A growing body of research makes this impossible to deny. Recent scandals at Baylor, Stanford, Florida State, the University of Montana and dozens of other institutions underscore the scale of the problem. Title IX has started to make schools safer, largely as a result of guidance issued by the Obama administration in 2011. If Ms. DeVos revokes these measures, the cost in human suffering is likely to be enormous.