LINCOLN, NEB. — My parents threw me a surprise party when I graduated from college. I was the first in my family to do so, and it was, in many ways, a party for all of us. They rented a banquet hall, invited everyone they felt had played a key part in my arriving at that moment — and told me we were going to a cousin’s baby shower. Shortly after everyone yelled “surprise,” my dad took the microphone and started the festivities by introducing one of the few white American families there. “Do you recognize these people?” he asked, pointing to them. I did not. “Those are the people who sold us our house. Because we lived in that house, you went to the schools you went to, had the teachers you had, everything. We would not be standing here today had they never sold us the house.” The family waved from their table. My parents still live in that house. When my dad paid it off, he celebrated by burning various house-related documents over a charcoal grill in the backyard. He made us all come outside to watch. Within no time, he would decide to borrow against the house to help me pay for college. This sentiment — that a house is so much more than a house, that a house means destiny, opportunity — has played out in various ways throughout my life. While married, I saved for a house, “house” becoming synonymous with future, with family. But when I bought my first home, in Tallahassee, Fla., the closing coming a month shy of my 30th birthday, my dad made an ominous pronouncement: “You guys aren’t house people. You’re condo people.” I took this as an insult, though now I understand he meant it as an indictment of a marriage he sensed was destined to fail. The house in Tallahassee came with a cautionary tale. I bought it from a lawyer who had been given the house as a wedding present from his parents, who just so happened to live in the house next door. For reasons that were never made clear but about which the town’s real estate agents loved to speculate, the house had been on the market for more than a year, the rumor being that the seller’s father (also a lawyer, well known in the community and famous in part for being fired by the serial killer Ted Bundy) had put out a warning that no one should buy it. I’d moved there from Los Angeles; his warning hadn’t made it that far. Everyone who came to work on the house had a story. One contractor told me that when the previous owners had put up the “for sale” sign, the seller’s mother came over with a marker and defaced it, scrawling “AT THE COST OF OUR LOVE” across it. The seller’s father would often knock on my door and ask after the baby, forgetting over and over again that I did not have children. He would glance past me into the living room with a look on his face that said, Then why do you need all this space? And he was right: With that house came expectations — there was a room that used to be a nursery and boom, now it was the nursery forever. When the marriage ended and the house was sold, with it went everything the house was supposed to become. I’d written a novel in a bright, spacious office in that house, but it’s the empty nursery that haunted me when I moved to Lincoln, Neb., single and singing the praises of renting forever. That is, until Lana intervened. A financial planner, she’d been recommended to me by my accountant, who sensed from my shoe box of receipts and my habit of bringing every official-looking paper mailed to me to our meetings that I needed some financial guidance. Lana was in her mid-50s and about a foot taller than me. She had a wide smile and personalized coasters on her desk. She was originally from Mitchell, S.D. I’d been to Mitchell’s famed Corn Palace once. We hit it off instantly. “First things first,” Lana said after reviewing the financials of my life. “You need to buy some property. In Lincoln, that probably means a house.” I did what anyone under 35 does in a moment like that: I tweeted, “Someone tell me if I should buy a house?” Among the responses was a direct message from my former husband, who hadn’t been in contact in months: “No, you should not buy a house. Condo, though, maybe. 2€”  For the first time in my life, I had a stable income, no debt and no financial dependents — and I’d just sold a house. I knew I was very lucky and that I was supposed to do something responsible. I asked Lana if I could buy a condo or a loft, or maybe a warehouse. I joked I wanted to be able to roller skate inside of whatever property I owned. Lana wrote all of this down. She looked up from her notepad and said, “I’d say Lincoln’s got another 15, 20 years before we’re a funky enough city to support warehouse living.” I showed her the message from my ex-husband, and told her that I’d crowdsourced the question to begin with. “From everything I’m putting together about you,” she said, “it sounds like your No. 1 priority with a property is what I’d call ease of exit.” Meaning: getting out of something quickly if I needed to. In Lincoln, she said, that’s a single-family home. “But that’s not for me,” I argued. Homes are for families. Homes determine everything, from where your kids might go to college to how long your marriage will last. I was sitting in her office in pajama pants and a shirt that said “TEAM GG” and had sketches of all four “Golden Girls.” It took almost a year for Lana to help me rewrite the narrative that had been keeping me from buying a home. In the one I would eventually buy, I stood next to my realtor in its bathroom and freaked out at the site of an oversize custom tub from 1939, which — with its built-in seats — looked perfect for bathing a couple of toddlers. I shook my head and said: “I can’t buy this house. This is for a family. I see kids in this tub!” She shrugged. “I see a great tub.” I met with Lana again after closing on the house. I brought many official-looking papers she did not need. She said the next thing I needed to do was draw up a will. I said no thanks, and she very calmly and with her typical wisdom explained why I was being ridiculous. She sent me follow-up emails with links. A week later, I got an email saying Lana had passed away unexpectedly. The email’s third sentence stated that “the firm is prepared to partner with you and to continue serving your wealth management needs.” I wrote back asking about a memorial service, but it was Lana I wanted to reply to — after learning from her obituary about the myriad boards she sat on and the millions she raised for various charitable causes in Lincoln. I had so many new questions for her: about what really mattered, about what versions of wealth really needed managing. I wanted to know who else had loved her, whom to call to say I was sorry she was gone. I wanted to know her address.