At the end of last month, the International Monetary Fund downgraded its forecast for economic growth in the United States. Where the I.M.F. previously predicted the economy would grow at a rate of 2.3 percent in 2017 and 2.5 percent in 2018, it now expects 2.1 percent growth in both years. The reason? An uncertain and insufficiently expansionary economic environment linked to the chaos in Washington. Yes, the stock market has been strong and unemployment is down. But Donald Trump, friend of business, may be costing us growth, a key indicator of economic health. The I.M.F. forecast is a reminder that ill-advised policy isn’t the only way politics can interfere with growth. Instability can also slow things down. Macroeconomists have long pondered how growth might be affected by features of the political system. Mostly an issue — until now — in the developing world, instability is thought to hinder growth by generating uncertainty that scares off investors and makes firms risk-averse. Instability also gives politicians a short-term view of things: If they can’t be sure they or their parties will be involved in governance in the future, they won’t commit to economic policies with long-term yield. In a 1992 paper, the economist Alberto Alesina and colleagues tested these suppositions by looking at data on 113 countries from 1950 to 1982. A challenge in estimating the effect of instability on economic growth is that causality may run in the opposite direction: Low growth, and the accompanying sense of economic malaise, can lead to political disruption, rather than vice versa. After addressing this problem statistically, the researchers discovered that growth does tend to be slower when nations are politically unstable — when governments verge on collapse or pinball from one ideological extreme to another. More recently, the economists Ari Aisen and Francisco José Veiga examined 169 countries from 1960 to 2004. They gauged political instability by how often a new head of government was installed or more than half of the cabinet was changed out (or both). The greater the frequency of these changes, they found, the less overall investment there tended to be in physical capital like factories, and the lower the rate of growth. The United States isn’t an unstable Third World republic. But with a White House plagued by remarkably high staff turnover, and with constitutional crises lurking around every corner, the country and economy aren’t exuding predictability either. If you were a judicious chief executive, you might be more restrained in pushing to expand amid the political turmoil, whatever the administration’s interest in cutting regulatory red tape and slashing corporate taxes. If the United States achieves the growth rate now projected by the I.M.F., it won’t be terrible. But it won’t be anything like the productivity spurts that policy makers and the public grew accustomed to in the second half of the 20th century. A vigorous, expanding economy meant jobs, reliably filled tax coffers, real recovery from downturns and continual improvement in the quality of life. Today, more modest growth rates have become the new normal. There are several schools of economic thought on why growth has been in the doldrums — but unfortunately, few offer solutions that are viable in an atmosphere of political instability. For example, Lawrence Summers, the Treasury secretary under Bill Clinton, has developed a theory called “secular stagnation.” The core idea is that the advanced economies of the world, including the United States, have entered a phase where there is too much saving and not enough new investment, keeping interest rates and inflation lower than they should be. Mr. Summers points out that it costs a lot less to start a company in the internet age than when the only way to make money was through manufacturing. So there’s less investment demand. With a nod to the New Deal economist Alvin Hansen, who wrote about the relationship between population size and interest rates, Mr. Summers notes as well that population growth in Europe and the United States has steeply declined. Without new workers and consumers coming onto the rolls, there’s an upper limit to domestic profit-making opportunities. Mr. Summers believes there’s a way out of the low-growth trap. He argues for a major debt-financed infrastructure spending program, coupled with tax reform, policies to address rising inequality (since when income gains go almost entirely to those at the top, it’s hard to get a broad-based rise in consumer demand) and efforts to counter protectionist trade practices. The thing is, nothing like what he proposes will be possible so long as we have a president whose inflammatory language, egregious actions and administrative incompetence continue to alienate voters and members of Congress. President Trump campaigned for infrastructure spending, but at this point neither Democrats or Republicans are likely to get completely on board. As for the other pro-growth suggestions, the president and his cabinet of billionaires couldn’t care less about inequality and seem to be gunning for a trade war with China. And it’s anyone’s guess whether Mr. Trump has the discipline to negotiate corporate tax reform. The bottom line is that while Wall Street is happy for the moment, the United States economy isn’t reaching its full potential. A tumultuous Trump administration will have a hard time getting us there.