For many of the thousands of American weddings that have taken place so far this summer, there have been two unspoken requirements: 1) that the events be stunning, awe-inspiring, love-filled, unique and fun all at once, and 2) that they appear to have occurred miraculously, with zero effort or emotional output on the part of the bride. The consequences of breaking the first rule are bad. Risks include an anemic hashtag, utterly forgettable vows and underwhelming Snapchat footage of a dance floor populated only by ring bearers and a few dutiful guests doing an unenthusiastic Wobble. But the punishment for failing to live up to the second requirement is worse: A woman (nobody will be surprised to learn that this is only a risk for women) will be labeled a “bridezilla.” The dreaded descriptor solidified itself in popular discourse back in 2004, thanks to a reality show dedicated to documenting pre-wedding temper tantrums. Before long, any bride who dared to reveal any fraction of the stress that went into planning the best day ever (the bar for which has risen to impossible heights thanks to Pinterest pressure and social media scrutiny) ran the risk of being described as a monster. Despite a long list of tasks to complete and her venue double-booking her wedding date, Carley Musser, who got married in February, tried to be as “flexible and laid back as possible,” she said. “If I knew someone referred to me as a bridezilla, it would have killed me.” Fortunately, a growing group of women have decided they won’t in fact die if they’re described with that wedding-season slur. After all, when you realize it simply reflects the latest in no-win situations devised for just one gender, it really does take some of the air out. Just as a competent, civil presidential candidate was called a “nasty woman” and little girls who show leadership skills are scolded for being “bossy,” “bridezilla” is specifically designed to condemn a woman who puts any energy and authority toward trying to achieve entirely reasonable goals. It’s efficient shorthand to remind her, “Hey, the world actually likes you a lot better without opinions.” You might ask: But how is she supposed to communicate, let alone meet ever-loftier wedding day expectations, without expressing those opinions? It’s impossible. Many brides have wised up, though, saying that they think “bridezilla” is just a word that tries to mutate their perfectly normal emotions into uncontrollable hysteria. Mahalia Jessup, a wedding planner in Alexandria, Va., knows that well. “I just think that when brides are particular, they get called this,” she said. The catch is that to plan a wedding that’s anything more elaborate than a Las Vegas drive-through ceremony, there’s no way to avoid being particular. This event, if not the most important event of a person’s life, is often among the most expensive. Last year, according to a survey by the wedding website The Knot, the final bill now typically hovers around $35,329. Turning that budget into a multipart, multihour experience is a job not unlike being the C.E.O. of a small company: The person in charge has to set the vision, crosscheck the delightful details to ensure they’re not featured on blogs about “wedding trends that are so last year,” find caterers who will leave neither the Whole 30 crowd nor the newly minted vegans starving, and ensure that it’s all executed on time and with panache. A bride whose social circle and income put her at the impossible center of a Venn diagram with “high expectations” on one side and “can’t afford a planner” on the other is especially out of luck. In her 2007 book “One Perfect Day,” Rebecca Mead argues that the bridezilla taboo is just one component of a profitable industry: Get women as stressed out as possible and they’ll spend any amount of money to get what they want. Even modern couples who shun tradition or would rather save for a down payment on a house must choreograph their alternative ceremonies. Potluck meals have to be assigned, volunteer photographers have to be coordinated, and the “you” in D.I.Y. isn’t just any old “you.” It’s — you guessed it — the bride. In any heterosexual relationship, no matter how progressive, women are often still expected to lead the wedding-planning charge. One bride told me her male partner was effectively ignored by vendors, his ideas and questions unacknowledged. It’s like payback for sexist office dynamics! Except, well, women lose here, too. Plenty of people have made light of the familiar conflicting priorities of a woman caught in this sexism-fueled trap: trying desperately to appear cool and casual, all while revealing herself to be exactly the opposite, and overwhelming bridesmaids with requests to provide the kind of help that professionals charge for. Certainly, pending nuptials shouldn’t give anyone license to be unkind to their loved ones. But “bridezilla” is often used to condemn behavior that falls far short of cruel or selfish. At more than one bridal shower I’ve attended, the term has been thrown out very early in the process as an apparent warning to a bride-to-be who is showing early signs of simply making her needs or preferences known. (You want what? Cake before gifts? O.K., but, wow … don’t be a bridezilla, now!) How exactly do people think it comes to be that the table runners match the flowers, which were shipped across the country on a bed of ice because they are out of season but the groom had a vision of purple ties and they were the only flowers that would match the color scheme? Is there possibly a fake news story circulating about how women, upon engagement, are assigned a flock of tiny Cinderella birds who flutter around, making sure that no one is seated at a table with any of their ex-boyfriends and that no one is separated from the plus-one they decided to bring three days ago because they assumed that, unless the bride was a bridezilla, it would be no problem? (Warning: Any response other than “no problem” to inevitable wedding-day fiascos and breaches of etiquette will get you labeled with one of two B-words — and probably both.) Many women are over it, and rightly so. Brittany Rathge, who planned a 250-person wedding for November 2016, spent months stressing over bridesmaids dresses that were arriving too late before bucking up and getting confrontational, embodying the stereotype she had been so worried she’d become and leading her to the realization that “maybe a woman being called a ‘bridezilla’ is just a woman who is trying her best to get stuff done.” The criticism is all the more bizarre at a time when men in politics are engaging in regular public tantrums. Imagine if brides, so often mocked for demands couched in nicety-laden emails, chose to tweet desires and disappointments (in all-caps) instead? Would there be any supporters to praise them for showing a refreshing new brand of leadership by telling it like it is? Eyes opened to double standards, Ms. Jessup said that many of the brides who hire her are choosing to see “bridezilla” for what it is, and even reclaim it. If you’re going to pitch a fit, she said, “your wedding day is the day to do that.” It might be hard to identify with such a monstrous word, but in modern parlance all it really means is that you’re the boss and acting like it. And as the boss, you have the power to make an executive decision to refuse to worry about being called a sexist name simply for completing the task at hand. That’s even more reason to celebrate — and a lesson that’s applicable long after the big day.