This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. The leaders of the Democratic Party recently laid out their economic agenda. It is their attempt to respond to President Trump’s election — and give Americans an alternative to Trumpism. It’s also the beginning of the Democratic agenda for the 2018 and 2020 campaigns. Their aim is to be able to implement the agenda once they have returned to power. The plan, called “A Better Deal,” has several promising ideas on infrastructure, corporate consolidation and other subjects. It is also intended to be a thematic argument that is more than the sum of its parts. Here’s how Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader in the Senate, announced the plan in a Times op-ed last month: “In the last two elections, Democrats, including in the Senate, failed to articulate a strong, bold economic program for the middle class and those working hard to get there. We also failed to communicate our values to show that we were on the side of working people, not the special interests. We will not repeat the same mistake.” On that score, I think the Democrats still have a lot of work to do. They haven’t yet told a clear story about the country’s problems and how they’ll solve those problems. Trump certainly has such a story, much as I may disagree with it. It’s a story in which he blames his enemies (illegal immigrants, criminals, Islamists, China, journalists, etc.) for the country’s ills. And stories with bad guys are often powerful. Harry Truman also relied on a story about America’s enemies to succeed in the populist political environment after World War II, as Walter Russell Mead recently pointed out in The Wall Street Journal. Technocrats, academics and journalists “are often motivated by hope,” Mead wrote, while “the public at large tends to be more focused on fear.” There are some obvious potential enemies for today’s Democrats to summon. There are the “billionaires” whom Bernie Sanders excoriates. There is the growing threat of damage from climate change. And there are other countries, some of which probably qualify as enemies (Russia) and others as ambitious rivals (China). A tale of good versus bad is hardly the only option open to Democrats. Barack Obama won the presidency with a message famously light on fear and heavy on hope. But the party is likely going to need a more resonant story than the one it currently has. Finding one should be as much of a priority as honing the policy white papers that Democrats will need when they next have a chance to govern. In The Times. Readers wrote in with over 1,200 alternatives to the Democrats’ “A Better Deal” slogan, most aimed at providing a “positive, inclusive, empathetic message” for the 2018 and 2020 elections. I invite you to read some of those suggestions, and the reasoning behind them, here. And if you missed it over the weekend, Carol Anderson argues in a Sunday Review op-ed that, despite lacking any major legislative accomplishments, Trump’s attacks on immigrants, affirmative action and supposed voter fraud have kept conservative whites enthusiastic about his presidency. “The guiding principle in Mr. Trump’s government is to turn the politics of white resentment into the policies of white rage — that calculated mechanism of executive orders, laws and agency directives that undermines and punishes minority achievement and aspiration,” Anderson, an Emory professor, writes. A programming note: I will be off, taking a break from writing this newsletter starting Thursday, Aug. 10. Several colleagues will be filling in and I think you’ll enjoy their perspectives. I’ll be back Monday, Aug. 28.