LOS ANGELES — See if you can ride along with some agents from Immigration and Customs Enforcement rounding up Latino immigrants, the photo editor tells the photographer. Go capture a group of brown-skinned innocents being led away in cuffs. And if one of the ICE agents is also Latino, the editor adds, so much the better. In the Trump era, such conversations are unfolding again and again in newsrooms across the United States. Our best “shooters” are sent out on a hunt for images of undocumented immigrants at perhaps the most vulnerable and degrading moment in their lives. These images have been a staple of American journalism for as long as I’ve been in the business. Very often, they seem a kind of immigration porn. When I was young and angry and saw such pictures for the first time, I confronted one of its purveyors. A photojournalist and artist had filled a San Francisco art gallery with his black-and-white images of Mexicans and others being tied up and hustled away by the Border Patrol near Tijuana. This was in the mid-1980s, long before any fence or wall was built there. The detained immigrants had the startled expressions of children caught misbehaving, or confused peasants caught up in a modern system they couldn’t hope to understand. One handcuffed woman wore a shirt that bore the words “High Life.” The photograph seemed to revel in the irony. I told the photographer I objected to the quantity and monotony of the images. They hit the same pathetic and melodramatic note over and over. To mount them on a wall and call it art was deeply offensive, I told him. Each of his subjects possessed a story and a personality he had completely overlooked. “Dude, this isn’t who they are,” I said. “This isn’t who we are.” The photographer was a well-meaning liberal. My comments stunned him. He had never met a young guy with immigrant parents and a college degree telling him he’d failed to see the full humanity of his Latino subjects. Today, immigration porn is ubiquitous. You are many times more likely to see a deportee on the TV news than a Latino doctor or teacher. Images of immigrants facing deportation have accumulated in our collective national consciousness as the essence of the Latino experience. The Latino is a tragic mestizo: the illegal immigrant who will always be denied a share of the American dream; the “conflicted” immigration agent forced to round up his own people; the boy outside a federal building, tears streaming, freshly separated from his father. My objection is not to the coverage of deportations and the drama of desert border crossings. Parents are separated from their children, people are tortured by smugglers, and many die. We cannot, should not, look away. But the humiliated and hunted people you see in coverage of the deported are not the whole person. Tenacity and stubbornness are the defining qualities of undocumented America. This is precisely what is absent in the media’s depiction of the more than 11 million people who live there. If I could, I would resurrect Dorothea Lange, the legendary photographer of the Great Depression, to capture a truly defining image of that experience. When taking her most famous photograph, “Migrant Mother,” Lange ignored the pile of dirty clothes next to her subject, an itinerant farmworker sitting by the roadside with her children. “She would never embarrass her subjects,” her biographer Linda Gordon writes in “Dorothea Lange: A Life Beyond Limits.” I like to imagine Lange drifting through the barrios of California in her old Ford, loaded down with her Graflex camera. Rather than see her subjects as objects of pity “living in the shadows,” as today’s liberal malarkey has it, she would immerse herself in their lives. She might encounter a Mexican immigrant sitting on his porch in Los Angeles, weary from his day’s labors. I see her taking a step back and observing him lost in thought as he watches his children play in the front yard. In the face and gestures of that copper-skinned man, her photograph would depict the ineffable qualities of the immigrant present: weariness and hopefulness, uncertainty and pride. His dignity and his burdens would be plain to see, but perhaps also a certain raffish quality — the lively brown eyes of a man who has found his way through adversity with wit and wiles. That is the true image of undocumented America. Not immigrant porn, but something infinitely more interesting. Art. The beauty and complexity of the lives of working people seen as they truly are.