Last month, I announced in an Op-Ed that I was leaving the Southern Baptist Convention. I had to. As a black scholar of race and a minister committed to social justice, I could no longer be part of an organization that is blind to its racism.  Some readers questioned my motives. A few black ministers wrote Op-Eds elsewhere explaining why they chose to stay in the convention.  More than 1,000 people commented on the Times website, and hundreds more on social media. My email was flooded with reactions from people all across the country.  Here is a collection of their responses. —Lawrence Ware Brother Ware, I understand your feelings. My uncle was a Southern Baptist minister, yet I had to leave the church of my heritage when I was 17 and first learned of the Holocaust. After my minister told me that the Jews who died at the Nazis’ hands went to hell, I knew that I could no longer be a Southern Baptist. Other than weddings and funerals, I never stepped foot in another S.B.C. church. — GrayGarden in Connecticut I still remember the words of a president of the Southern Baptist Convention: “God does not hear the prayers of a Jew.” That has colored my attitude toward the Convention. Nothing has happened to change my attitude since then. — Dirtlawyer in Wesley Chapel, Fla. I left the Southern Baptist Convention back in the 1970s as a 9-year-old (mentally at least; I was forced to attend their services until I was 15. But intellectually and emotionally, I washed my hands of them as a child). During the debates about women’s rights and passing the Equal Rights Amendment, I repeatedly heard ministers insult and degrade women — and even call for their husbands to physically abuse them if they were not “obedient” — from the pulpit. Even a child realizes that is a message of hate and not the gospel of Christ. — StrangeDaysIndeed in New York City I left the Southern Baptist Church in the 1980s when all I heard from the pulpit and in the pews was how AIDS was a condemnation from God for the sin of being gay. No love, no compassion, no mercy ... nothing vaguely Christ-like. — ConorAedhan in Memphis I left the Southern Baptist Church in 1965 ... for racism. I was a member of the First Baptist Church in Houston under the leadership of K. Owen White. Five black people, normally not even present during those days, answered the altar call and tried to join the church, usually a pro forma request. Well, the church pillars decided they needed to “study” the issue and after some months (if memory serves), they decided to bring the issue to a vote of the membership (something I had never seen as a loyal Baptist). At a packed Wednesday evening prayer meeting, the membership voted not to allow those five black people in. I voted with my feet and sent in a letter of resignation the next day and never again entered a S.B.C. church. Some things do not change, but at least that experience opened my eyes to the non-Christian realities of the S.B.C. — Andrea Chenier in Philadelphia My home church in Houston was an evangelical Southern Baptist church. The pastor, my best friend Robert, his dad and I would go bass fishing almost every Saturday. The pastor spoke of blacks as if they were another species not worthy of the blessing of Jesus. Blacks were, by default, corrupt and not to be trusted. “They will steal you blind if you turn your back. So never turn your cheek to a black person.” He taught that. I didn’t listen. — Travis Neal My grandfather was a Southern Baptist pastor, and my dad is a pastor as well who started the church he still leads in the 1980s. A couple of years ago God started moving my dad and the leadership of our church down an intentional path of integration. We were blessed with a black music minister which led to more integration of the staff. As a result of this shift, we lost a lot of people. It was tough to see people I grew up with and who taught me in Sunday school leave the church because of their discomfort being led by Black people in songs that were different than what we had grown accustomed. — Benjamin P. Roberts A LOT of black people in white evangelical denominations are considering leaving. Many have left quietly or are considering it. If white evangelicals don’t know the impact of their actions on black Christians, that’s probably because we don’t talk about it with you. It strikes me that historically most black Christians who spoke vocally against racism in Christianity did it from [within] the black church. I speak from experience. Racism is not a “blind spot” within white evangelicalism. It is part of that tradition’s DNA. — Jemar Tisby I am a Lutheran and I left the church where I was married and our kids were baptized because our new pastor was preaching exclusivity, saying: “We are the only ones who are saved.”I also left a well-known Bible study group, Word and Witness, that I was attending at another church, because our small-group discussion leader made the statement that “God used the Germans to punish the Jews.” She even called me on the phone after I had left, and argued with me. I said, “That’s not my God.” She said, “Well, we all have the same God.” — Sandy Andersen