NASHVILLE — Glen Campbell’s variety show, “The Glen Campbell Goodtime Hour,” was a fixture on the black-and-white Zenith console TV set in the den of my childhood home in suburban Chicago. It was my father’s show, being much too corny and strait-laced for an emerging adolescent like me to embrace, certainly not when the more subversive likes of the Beatles and Jimi Hendrix were to be had. Mr. Campbell, who died on Tuesday of Alzheimer’s, had his legions of fans, and his show, which ran on CBS from 1969 to 1972, was a hit. But most folks in the music establishment saw him as I did. Rolling Stone wouldn’t review him. He was a sellout, turning his back on his rock ’n’ roll instincts to produce middle-of-the-road pop. He was soulless, derivative. But we were wrong. As a member, in the 1960s, of Hollywood’s celebrated Wrecking Crew, an expansive circle of studio musicians akin to Motown’s Funk Brothers or Nashville’s A-Team, Mr. Campbell played guitar on iconoclastic recordings produced by Phil Spector, as well as others made by West Coast pop hitmakers like the Mamas and the Papas and the Association. He briefly replaced Brian Wilson in the Beach Boys while the group was on tour in 1964 and, two years later, contributed to the sessions that yielded their psychedelic touchstone, “Pet Sounds.” Mr. Campbell, though, was always a musical omnivore, his sensibilities steeped not only in the unvarnished country music of his native Arkansas but also in the sophisticated jazz of virtuoso guitarists like Barney Kessel and Django Reinhardt. Even a baroque-pop vehicle like “Classical Gas,” a Top 10 instrumental hit for the guitarist Mason Williams in 1968, found a home in Mr. Campbell’s big-tent repertoire. Recording under his own name, he seamlessly brought it all together, especially when collaborating with another Wrecking Crew alum, Al DeLory, an empathetic arranger who also worked on “Pet Sounds” and on several of Mr. Spector’s girl-group epiphanies of the early ’60s. Mr. Campbell’s honeyed tenor and Mr. DeLory’s swooning string arrangements on the likes of “Wichita Lineman” and “By the Time I Get to Phoenix” were at once earthy and elegant — just the right accompaniment for the mystical-existential, though unabashedly quotidian, musings of the great songwriter Jimmy Webb. Beauty likewise abounds in the rippling rhythms of the bluegrass-inflected “Gentle on My Mind,” a 1967 hit written by the freewheeling banjoist John Hartford, and in Mr. Campbell’s mournful guitar and anguished vocals on “Galveston,” yet another composition of Mr. Webb’s to achieve classic status. One of the most subtle and trenchant songs ever recorded about the Vietnam War — about the high price of any war — “Galveston” is sung from the perspective of a conflicted young recruit who, having just bid his sweetheart goodbye before shipping out, is cleaning his newly issued rifle even as he confesses that he’s “so afraid of dying.” Of course, in the late 1960s, it was easy to ignore Mr. Campbell’s depth and breadth if all you saw was his crooning and cutting up on the “Goodtime Hour.” He seemed the very opposite of the counterculture and its explosive, mind-expanding musical scene. To kids like me, he was the sound of the silent majority. Then one afternoon before the show was about to air, my dad brought home a copy of Mr. Campbell’s 1968 album, “Wichita Lineman.” He bought the record, he told me, as a gift for my mother because it included a song called “Ann,” which is my mother’s name, among its 11 tracks. The album also, to my surprise and delight, included versions of Otis Redding’s “(Sittin’ on the) Dock of the Bay” and the Bee Gees’ “Words,” giving it at least a modicum of the hip credibility that I might otherwise have found wanting. My dad, though, felt that “Ann,” a sentimental love song written by the West Virginia folk singer Billy Edd Wheeler, would strike the perfect note, and of course he was right, trusting in Mr. Campbell’s unwavering commitment to beauty, however simple or accessible its expression. When Elvis Presley first ventured into Sun Studios in the early 1950s, Marion Keisker, Sam Phillips’s trusted assistant, asked him, “What kind of singer are you?” Elvis’s immediate response was, “I sing all kinds.” The King’s answer could well have served Mr. Campbell, not only as a rejoinder to those who never seemed to find his country-pop sensibilities edgy enough, but as a testimony to his prodigious and wide-ranging talent.