In 2012, the Supreme Court took a step toward righting a terrible wrong by banning mandatory life sentences without the possibility of parole for children. Last year, the court said that ban should apply retroactively: It told prosecutors to conduct resentencing hearings for the approximately 2,500 people who were serving life sentences for crimes they committed as adolescents. Many of them had been in prison for decades. But if you walked into many courthouses today, you wouldn’t know that the Supreme Court had called for resentencing these juvenile offenders, the majority of them black. That’s because prosecutors are choosing to pursue life-without-parole sentences for these cases again. Part of the problem is that the court kept the door open for overreach when it allowed prosecutors to impose a life sentence on the rare defendant who is “irreparably corrupt” and “permanently incorrigible.” Consider Michigan, where prosecutors are denying parole or shorter sentences for 60 percent of juvenile lifers, even in cases where parole boards have recommended them. In Oakland County, northwest of Detroit, the share is a whopping 90 percent. While nearly half of all juvenile lifers are concentrated in Michigan, Pennsylvania and Louisiana, prosecutors elsewhere, like Scott Shellenberger in Baltimore County, Md.,  who has opposed ending such sentences for children, have also effectively thumbed their nose at the court’s ruling. On top of this, many prosecutors are resentencing juvenile lifers to de facto life-without-parole sentences. The district attorney of Orleans Parish in Louisiana defended a “reduced” sentence for a juvenile lifer to a term that would have let him leave prison at age 101. (A Louisiana Supreme Court justice later reprimanded the district attorney for this “stunning” and “constitutionally untenable” position). This is happening not because our prisons are full of unrepentant juvenile offenders who can never be rehabilitated, but because of a racist structure of perverse incentives that encourages prosecutors to pursue mass incarceration instead of justice. For decades, prosecutors have sought high conviction rates and long sentences in the belief that appearing tough on crime would advance their careers. Indeed, prosecutors in any given local district or state attorney’s office, from the most junior rookie to the top elected official, tend to view their career prospects through the lens of average sentence length. Another perverse incentive is short-term costs. It can be expensive to carefully review decades-old cases. Instead, prosecutor’s offices often cut costs by either not hiring enough lawyers to conduct thorough reviews or by instituting blanket resentence recommendations that lead to much longer sentences than many defendants deserve. In the long run, of course, it’s cheaper for society to not imprison for life people who are ready and willing to make positive contributions. Black communities have borne the brunt of this overzealous approach, and racial disparities can be found anywhere prosecutors have control over sentences. But in recent years, this racist incentive structure has begun to shift, as multiracial coalitions led by black Americans have elected prosecutors across the country who value safety and justice. This is no liberal pipe dream, but it does require sustained activism and perseverance. That’s what it took last November when voters in Chicago, Houston  and other cities ousted prosecutors who were not serving their interests and elected reform-minded candidates. In those cities, community advocates and my organization, Color of Change, helped make criminal justice issues a key part of the debate. But communities must work to hold all prosecutors accountable, even those who promise reforms. Prosecutors are the most powerful actors in the criminal justice system; they aren’t going to start caring about the Supreme Court’s rulings on juvenile sentences and other vital reforms until voters give them a reason to. In state legislatures, we must work to eliminate juvenile life without parole by statute. The District of Columbia and 19 states have already passed laws to ban death-in-jail sentences for children. The remaining states should follow suit. Prosecutors’ offices must also be more transparent by, for example, reporting data about sentence length and race. State legislatures can and should pass laws requiring these disclosures. Now that more Americans are taking the fight against injustice to the streets, town halls, community forums and the ballot box, we have a powerful opportunity to demand accountability from elected officials who are playing for points with our lives. In doing so, we can win control over criminal justice systems that have for so long been used to attack our freedoms and hobble our communities.