CHICAGO — Imagine that a senior government official takes to Twitter, makes a call to a national news outlet or goes on national television to disparage you. Imagine that he tells lies about you to a national audience, lies harmful to your professional or personal future. What could you do to remedy the situation? You might seek a retraction. Perhaps you would go to colleagues and friends to privately plead your side of the case. Or if you were lucky enough to have a national platform of your own, maybe you would try to correct the defamatory statement in public. But one thing you couldn’t do is sue. No judicial remedy exists when a federal official defames someone. This gap in the law isn’t a result of a conscious decision by Congress or federal judges to protect the government’s ability to defame you. It was created inadvertently. In an age when the political lie is being weaponized to increasing effect, it’s an oversight Congress should redress. Today, if a news outlet like The New York Times, CNN or Breitbart News utters a slander, or if a private citizen campaigning for office does so, the courts stand open. Certainly, remedies are not unlimited. Worried about defamation’s chilling effects on the press, the Supreme Court has rightly erected high hurdles to defamation damages.  But if a government official makes an intentional, false and harmful utterance, there is nothing to be done. In February, for example, hours after reporting critically on the Trump administration’s press operations, Alex Isenstadt of Politico found himself accused (apparently falsely) by anonymous White House officials of jeering at and dismissing the death of a Navy SEAL — the sort of cruel and vulgar act that might get a journalist fired. Under current defamation law, Mr. Isenstadt would have no recourse in that event. How did this gap in defamation law arise? When the government harms someone, a 1946 law called the Federal Tort Claims Act generally provides a judicial remedy. In 1988, in the Westfall Act, Congress amended the earlier act to cover most personal injury claims brought against federal officials. These laws, however, carve out immunities for government officials when it comes to “libel, slander, misrepresentation” as well as “deceit.” Why those exceptions? Simple caution, explained Alexander Holtzoff, a special assistant in the office of the attorney general, in testimony to the House of Representatives in 1940. Better, he warned, to “take it step by step.” Torts of the slip-and-fall variety are more straightforward than, say, a slander case. Congress would presumably get around to addressing those torts as well — except that it hasn’t. In a 1976 case, Paul v. Davis, which involved a police flier with photographs of people “known to be active” as shoplifters, the Supreme Court held that the Constitution’s due process clause does not protect reputation. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist expressed alarm about the flood of cases that might follow if people were allowed to sue their local and state officials for libel and slander. But the court simply failed to account for the consequences of its ruling on federal officials, who are fewer in number and who generally have more access to national media platforms. And no one was really imagining that the White House would slander people. Many decades have passed. In that time, courts have had ample experience with injury claims against the federal government. Yet no steps have been taken to protect against the damage of official speech that falsely impugns a person’s character in the national media. There is a simple solution. Congress should enact a judicial remedy for any person defamed by an official of the federal government speaking or writing to the public. To foreclose the need for burdensome discovery or depositions, liability would turn on whether a reasonable person in the official’s position would have known the statement was false (and not on what the official in fact knew). Discovery would be allowed in exceptional cases where a defense relied on factual assertions that could be tested only by careful judicial inquiry into what the official knew. Limiting the remedy to federal officials would address Chief Justice Rehnquist’s worry about a flood of minor lawsuits against local and state officials. Further, public officials would not be chilled from anything other than reckless and false statements. For one thing, it would typically be hard for a plaintiff to show that an official should have known a statement was false. Only outright fabrication with no plausible basis in fact would meet this test. In addition, the remedy if a plaintiff were to win would not be damages. No official would personally pay out of pocket. Rather, the court would issue a declaratory judgment finding the statement false and defamatory. Where the shaming effect of this finding seemed insufficient, a court would have discretion to order an apology. President Trump has talked about opening up libel law, though I doubt that this is what he had in mind. Nonetheless, legislators who want to keep our national political life civil and stable would do well to think about libel reform — for government speech.