If you are a woman in America who spends any amount of time thinking about her body — which is to say, if you are a woman in America — then you know that it’s August, not April, that’s the cruelest month. In April, you can wear a cardigan. In August, you’ve got to either bare your flesh to sun and scrutiny, feigning body confidence in your swimsuit, or cower in your cover-up and risk being shamed for your shame. Contradictory messages abound: Love your body, but also accept that it’s utterly undesirable, a punch line for comics and critics. Embrace your so-called flaws, but also be like Hilary Duff and point them out on Instagram before the tabloids do it for you. On my Facebook feed, I’ve got ads for the BodyBoss fitness program battling with a news article about how exercise makes no difference in how much you weigh. What’s a girl to do? As always, there are no right moves, no correct way of being female in a body in the world. Just plentiful reminders of where a woman’s true worth resides, whether they’re from Donald Trump treating France’s first lady like the winner of a Hot Legs contest at the local bar, or my personal corner of the internet — and maybe yours, too — erupting over an Instagram post by a man named Robbie Tripp in which he penned a paean of love to his “curvy” wife. “For me, there is nothing sexier than this woman right here: thick thighs, big booty, cute little side roll, etc.,” Mr. Tripp wrote of his spouse, a normal-looking lady with a slightly thicker-than-sample-size build. “Her shape and size won’t be the one featured on the cover of Cosmopolitan but it’s the one featured in my life and in my heart.” It was weird. Almost 20 years ago, when I was writing my first novel, trying to think of the worst thing that could happen to my plus-size protagonist, I decided that her ex would write a column called “Loving a Larger Woman.” He’d get praised for his tolerance and sensitivity. She’d be left feeling raw and exposed. At first, truth followed fiction. Mr. Tripp’s post went viral, racking up more than 37,000 “likes” on Instagram. The Huffington Post called it “required reading,” and PopSugar praised him for being one of the few men willing to preach body positivity. We also got memes, and jokes like “Man walks into a bar, because it was set so low.” Readers pointed out that the post was more about self-congratulation than self-confidence and that lecturing women about your version of desirability is just as bad as telling us we’ve got to stay a Size 2. If any of this has left you with lingering insecurities about your body, there’s no shortage of sticks out there to beat yourself with. Consider People Magazine’s “What I Eat in a Day” feature, which requires a star to submit his or her daily intake to the public eye and a nutritionist’s assessment. Whether the subject’s a dancer, an actress or a TV personality, the diet is guaranteed to be frighteningly abstemious, long on whole grains, short on joy. Greek yogurt or a protein shake for breakfast, a salad or some lentils for lunch. Grilled salmon and blueberries (superfoods!) almost always show up somewhere, along with some kind of name-brand soup or shake (is the star compensated for its mention? We’ll never know!). Dessert — if it happens — is a single cookie. Or, perhaps, a square of artisanal chocolate. Never both. The message: acquiring a body that isn’t a joke or a punch line, one that won’t earn your partner high fives for his broad-mindedness, requires endless sacrifice, perpetual denial. Except everything changes when you switch to glossy magazines like Elle and W, GQ and Esquire. Over there, you can’t swing a weighted jump rope without hitting a star — sometimes the same one who’d claimed to subsist on poached eggs and wild salmon in People — proudly scarfing a cheeseburger or a plate of nachos. Jennifer Lopez sips protein shakes in People but orders a mozzarella-and-prosciutto panini (no tomatoes, please!) in W. Miley Cyrus shared a gluten-free diet with People in 2012 but eats Cracker Barrel chicken and dumplings in Elle in 2015. It’s such a notable trope — skinny starlet with big burger — that the folks who care about such things gave it a name: the Documented Instance of Public Eating, or the DIPE. Sometimes the DIPE is the result of desperation. For a freelancer who’s got to spin 2,500 insightful words out of a two-hour lunch, every bite necessarily becomes freighted with meaning as a disco fry ends up soaked in gravy, and every morsel must work to reveal something we didn’t already know about Julia Roberts. If the People diets signal virtue and discipline (Love me because I work so hard to look this way), the high-end fashion magazines’ repast serves up relatability on a plate (Love me, because I’m really just like you!). Meanwhile, all of the gleeful apology-free indulgence that goes on in GQ or Esquire sends a different message to male readers: Love me, because my appetite is sexy, and if I eat spare ribs in bed, there’s no telling what else I might do. It’s bananas. (Are bananas O.K. to eat again?) But in this forest of kale and contradiction, take time to savor a very special entry in the food diary genre — one that the novelist Alissa Nutting wrote for New York magazine’s Grub Street. It’s basically an inversion of the People diet, an extreme DIPE, with molten queso swapped for liters of water and McGriddles buns instead of spelt, full of lines like “I will eat almost anything coated in orange dust.” Read it. In this moment of mixed messages and shame, it feels good to laugh. And, I’ve been told, laughing burns calories, too.