New York City is in the midst of a cycling boom. New Yorkers are riding bikes more than ever, both as a commuting option and a recreational activity. But with that growth has come a steady increase in the number of riders who flout traffic laws, ignoring the fact that their actions can have tragic consequences. I know this firsthand. On March 9 at about 6:30 p.m. in Washington, my mother, Jane Bennett Clark, stepped onto the street on her way to the subway after work. It was an unseasonably warm and beautiful day, and I like to think that as she stepped off the curb she was in a cheerful mood, thinking about the weekend ahead. Those were among her final conscious moments. Seconds after she set foot in the crosswalk, a cyclist plowed into my mother with such speed that he broke her collarbone and multiple ribs. (My mom, who followed pedestrian laws with a near-religious fervor, had a green light.) She fell back on her head, fractured her skull and lost consciousness soon after. The cyclist was cited for disobeying a traffic device. The next day, my mother was declared dead at the hospital. She was 65, a journalist, a mother of three, a partner, a daughter and a new grandmother. My mom was struck in Washington, but it could have happened in New York. Both are among the most bike-friendly cities in the country. As The Times reported last month, there are more than 450,000 daily bike trips in the city. With 10,000 Citi Bikes and ubiquitous bike lanes, the streets are more hospitable than ever to bicycle commuters. And those increases aren’t unique to New York. Between 2000 and 2013, bike-commuting rates increased 62 percent on a national average, according to the League of American Bicyclists. Environmentally speaking, this is good news. But the rise of cycling in urban areas must be matched with efforts — by law enforcement officials and riders themselves — to make sure bicyclists follow the law. Mayor Bill DeBlasio of New York has touted his Vision Zero initiative to reduce traffic fatalities across the city, which overwhelmingly involve cars. (More than 10,000 pedestrians were injured and 137 killed in accidents involving motor vehicles in 2015. And 4,433 cyclists were injured and 14 killed.) But clearly not enough has been done to protect pedestrians from irresponsible bikers. The number of collisions between pedestrians and cyclists rose more than 40 percent from 2012, when there were 243 crashes that injured 244 pedestrians, to 2015, when there were 349 that injured 361 pedestrians. It’s not just pedestrians at risk. The number of collisions between cyclists has gone up by roughly the same amount. The writer Michael Musto, a longtime cyclist in New York, recently broke his leg and ankle when struck by another cyclist in Midtown. “Some bike riders think they’re above the law,” he said in an email. “They come out of nowhere, going the wrong way, and often don’t care about your safety.” I live in Prospect Heights in Brooklyn, where cyclists seem to be everywhere. I have always loved taking long walks in my neighborhood, ambling through the park and brownstone-lined streets with my husband and young daughter. But now when I leave the house I’m struck by the number of cyclists with no regard for the traffic laws. I see them blowing through red lights and stop signs, careering down sidewalks and weaving in and out of traffic, often while wearing earbuds or even looking at their phones. I frequently find myself calling out to the reckless bikers as they race past me on the street to remind them that they are subject to the same traffic laws as cars. Sometimes the cyclists ignore me, but more often they openly deride me, laughing at my schoolmarmish insistence on following the rules. Occasionally, as when I yelled at a pedicab driver who sped through a red light in Central Park, they stop to yell back epithets. (In 2014, a pedestrian was killed by a cyclist who was swerving to avoid a pedicab in Central Park.) I have a 14-month-old daughter who was the joy of my mom’s life. My mother was not there to celebrate my daughter’s first birthday. She will not get to see her grow up, nor will she meet any future children my two siblings and I might have. My family has been robbed of decades with this beloved person in our lives. The cyclists I see on the street every day do not know about my personal tragedy. In their rush to shave a few seconds off their daily commutes, they probably don’t consider the risks. I’m sure they don’t plan to hurt anyone. Neither did the guy who killed my mother. Traffic laws exist for a reason, and apply to cars and bikes alike. Cyclists should remember that — and my mom, Jane Bennett Clark — the next time they think about breaking them.