Every summer around this time, pediatricians’ offices are flooded with children getting the vaccines they need to start another year of school. Doctors base their advice on which shots patients should get when on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s vaccine recommendations. The guidelines are presented in two schedules, one for children, the other for adults, both divided into subgroups based on developmental biology and social behaviors common at different ages. Unfortunately, there’s a major problem with the guidelines. And it’s representative of a larger failing in our health care system. There are 17 subgroupings for children from birth through age 18. That makes sense because, of course, a 6-month-old has had little time to develop immunity, weighs far less than an 8-year-old and is exposed to fewer people than a teenager. There are five subgroups for adults. But all Americans 65 and older — including the two fastest-growing segments of our population, the 80- to 90-year-olds and those over 100 — are lumped in a single group, as if bodies and behaviors don’t change over the last half-century of life. You don’t need to be a doctor to see that this is absurd. Just as we don’t confuse toddlers with teenagers, or young adults with their middle-age parents, so, too, are we able to distinguish 70-year-olds from the nonagenarians a generation ahead of them. Those two groups — the “young old” and the “old old” — don’t just differ in how they look and spend their days; they also differ biologically. As a result, it’s likely that we are incorrectly vaccinating a significant number of the 47 million Americans over 65. With advancing age, the immune system weakens (a phenomenon called immunosenescence) and chronic diseases compromise the body’s resistance to infectious organisms. Older adults are thus more susceptible to infections — more likely to get sick, more likely to require hospitalization and more likely to die. At the same time, immunizations provide less protection. Older adults who receive tetanus and diphtheria vaccines, for instance, produce less-effective antibodies, and the vaccines’ protective effect fades faster than it does for younger patients. Older people may need different dosing or even biologically different vaccines. Given lengthening life spans, we may also be routinely undervaccinating older adults. The C.D.C. recommends one dose of the shingles vaccine at 65, but we don’t know whether that shot protects people over 85, when the lifetime risk of disease exceeds 50 percent. We give children boosters to maintain immunity, a strategy that could make sense as people age as well. There may also come a point toward the end of many lives when vaccination no longer makes sense. Although the C.D.C. recommends that everyone receive an annual flu vaccine, the benefits for the very old and ill are unproven, and for them the shot may produce only pain and inconvenience. All this could be addressed by better guidelines — ones as nuanced for people over 65 as for those below. Critically, however, those guidelines would need to recognize that immunization, like all medical decisions, cannot be based on age alone. Both the speed and extent of aging vary widely, not only among but also within individuals; you can have hearing loss but no vision changes, or stiffened joints but supple arteries. Human diversity reaches its apex in old age. With good luck, some people don’t move from adulthood to what we might call “oldhood” until their 70s, and occasionally later still. By contrast, stressors such as poverty, racial prejudice, incarceration and illness can accelerate aging, making others “old” in their 50s, with cellular changes and risks of chronic disease and death akin to those of people many decades their senior. A growing body of literature illustrates why these differences matter, both for immunizations and in health care more generally. Studies have shown that procedures used to treat common urological conditions not only had no efficacy in frail older men but also caused permanent functional decline and death. Older patients with acute myeloid leukemia have also been found to benefit less from treatment. And changes in the kidneys, heart, skin and other organs steadily decrease older people’s ability to tolerate chemotherapy and radiation. There are simply different risk-benefit ratios for older adults; the frailest and oldest often incur all the immediate harms of treatments, from prevention to intensive care, without seeing the benefits. The sad fact is that we frequently don’t know how to best care for the old. Treatments rarely target older adults’ particular physiology, and the old are typically excluded from clinical studies. Sometimes they are kept out based on age alone, but more often it’s because they have one of the diseases that typically accompany old age. And yet we still end up basing older people’s treatment on this research, because too often it is all we have. Equally troublesome is the failure of studies to measure outcomes that reflect older people’s priorities. Most would rather live comfortably and independently for a shorter time than live for a slightly longer time confined to a bed or nursing home. It’s not that any age subgroup from babies to elders matters more than others. It’s that they all matter and that they are different. Some may believe that focusing more research and treatment on the old will take resources away from younger populations. But we can do both. Insurance companies continue to pay top dollar for questionable, useless and even harmful care for older people, money that could be spent on more effective care. In the 20th century, vaccines conquered many of the deadliest diseases of childhood. In the 21st century, when the number of older adults will surpass the number of children worldwide, we need to similarly target oldhood. Here are two easy steps that would help the C.D.C. correct the deficiency in its vaccine recommendations and increase equality throughout our health care system. First, whenever we apply something to people by age and are tempted to divide the life span into just childhood and adulthood, we should add oldhood to the list as well. Second, the National Institutes of Health should require that older adults be included in clinical studies, just as it already does for women and minorities. Life is a three-act play. It’s time our medical system reflected that truth.