BIGFORK, Mont. — I guess we should consider ourselves lucky. Folks down on Rock Creek have been praying for rain (sans lightning, of course) and hoping that the fire lines hold. Missoula is surrounded by wildfires, to the point that it really doesn’t matter which way the wind blows. North, east, south or west, the city’s population is still sucking smoke. The little town of Seeley Lake, which is due south of us on Highway 83, remains under an evacuation warning. There’s a new fire up the road toward Eureka, and it’s apparently blowing up as I type these words. If there’s solace to be had, I suppose we can find it in not having flames raging in our backyard. Welcome to Montana, where our famous trout streams run low and warm in August and the smoke turns our cloudless, robin’s-egg-blue skies the muted gray of old campfire ash. I was supposed to fish the Flathead River with a friend this week, and while we may still get out and float the stretch near Columbia Falls, I can’t say that I’m all that excited by the opportunity. Sure, it’s an awfully pretty piece of water, but it loses some of its allure when you have a hard time seeing the mountains for the smoke. Nor does it help when every particulate-filled breath is a reminder of the unrelenting heat, and the lack of moisture, and the prevalence, both here and all over these vast Western United States, of huge wildfires working their way through our desiccated forests. We’re now in the longest rainless stretch I’ve ever seen. I honestly don’t remember the last time it rained here. We’ve had a few storm clouds wander through, but they’ve all skirted our place and dribbled their meager offerings on distant ridges. It’s depressing. Water, of course, takes on a completely different meaning when lawns turn to matchbooks and the wind merits a “red flag” warning from the National Weather Service that conditions are ideal for fires to spread rapidly. We can’t help starting to think in terms of life and death. Will our remaining trees survive? Will the lilac bush make it through the summer? How long can the garden go without water before the blueberry bushes and the spinach give up the ghost? It’s fishing season here in Montana — the peak of it, really, if you judge the timing by the standards set back in the ’70s and ’80s — but the fishing, even on those days when it’s not an exercise in futility, just doesn’t seem as important as it usually does. Not when something as small and insignificant as a careless cigarette can send a pack of savage red hounds racing toward your home. I’d love to limber up the fly rod and catch a few trout. But the smoke and the heat and the lack of moisture have turned our attention elsewhere. And of course there’s the sorrowful news that we’ve lost another firefighter to this scorcher of a summer. A headline from a few days ago in The Missoulian reads, “Firefighters Bid Farewell to Fallen Hotshot.” The knowledge that another young firefighter has fallen victim to the dangers of this all-too-necessary occupation somehow helps bring things back into perspective. We have our lives and our home, and that’s something to be thankful for as we acknowledge the overwhelming loss others now face. So here we sit, riding out the dog days of August and hunkering down through these weeks of unnaturally intense fire and smoke. We won’t be camping this summer or toasting marshmallows over a backyard fire. It seems, in fact, that we’ve driven a stake through the heart of Montana’s old “normal,” which was cooler and wetter and far more pleasant than this new, human-influenced reality. The other night I wandered outside and watched the sun start to set. It dropped lower in the sky, morphing from a golden ball to a huge red orb to, eventually, a ghostly chimera fading slowly into the haze. Afterward I walked back to the house, trying to wrap my head around the fact that while the sun was still well above the horizon, I could no longer see it. Strange days, indeed.