In March 1966, a Marine sergeant named Earl Peterson arrived in Morenci, a town in southeastern Arizona. Home to the largest copper mine in the United States, Morenci is a company town, at the time owned almost completely by the Phelps Dodge Corporation. Practically every man in Morenci worked for the mine, and every boy knew that his future lay in its depths. Soon after Peterson arrived, Helen Arnold, an English teacher at the town’s small public school, announced a pop quiz. Unprepared, the class breathed a sigh of relief when the principal said that anyone meeting with Peterson could skip the test. Immediately, volunteers ran out, almost trampling each other. Not long after listening to the sergeant’s well-developed recruiting pitch promising adventure and an escape from a future toiling in the mine, nine young men signed up, including eight members of the Class of 1966. Bobby Draper hesitated, but came along after his friends taunted, “Come on Draper, you’re gutless. Let’s go join the Marines.” The light-complexioned, heavyset Draper had short-cropped blond hair and was an Explorer Scout and all-state linebacker. That day several people, including his football coach, Truman Williamson, tried talking him out of joining the Marines, but he persisted. Draper agreed with his comrade, Mike Cranford, who observed: “We were small-town people. We still believed in mom and apple pie. It was part of my duty as a man, growing up, to join the service. They didn’t have to draft us.” Advertisement On July 4, Draper headed to boot camp in San Diego with his eight friends. The drill instructors immediately pounced, yelling obscenities and questioning their sexuality. They forced them onto the yellow footsteps painted on the ground, heels together and toes pointed out with barely any room in front or behind them. Draper and his friends stayed together in Platoon 1055. Their camaraderie was important; it kept him going after the drill instructors singled him out, questioning whether “Pig” (their nickname for him) was willing to kill because of his Mormon faith. Draper often fell behind on long, tortuous runs under the California sun, his lips and nose caked in white zinc to protect his fair skin. His friends sometimes carried his pack. Draper wasn’t the only one to benefit from having his buddies around. “I thank God I joined with my friends when I did,” wrote Clive Garcia, another of the men from Morenci. “I don’t know what I’d do without them.” The group graduated in September. Like most of his friends, Bobby was assigned “Military Occupational Specialty 0311, infantry” — sometimes affectionately referred to as “Bulletstoppers.” After more training and a short leave, that December Draper joined three of his friends — Leroy Cisneros, Joe Sorrelman and Larry West — on a troop ship bound for Vietnam. During the long trip over, they talked about Morenci while debating naming each other beneficiaries of their life insurance. They arrived in South Vietnam on Dec. 26. Draper joined the 2nd Platoon, Golf Company, 2nd Battalion, 5th Marines operating near the hamlet of An Hoa. For nine months, he battled the mud, threat of death and loneliness. After his first firefight, Draper wrote home: “I didn’t even know what I was shooting at, just a place where we thought they were firing.” Many more battles followed. While riding an Amtrac, Draper’s vehicle hit a large anti-tank mine. He wrote about feeling himself “start to burn. All I could think of was get off!” Draper saw “men running around … with their faces, arms, hands, all burnt to heck. The skin was just hanging off of their bodies.” In mid-July 1967, Draper went on R&R to Tokyo. On his way back, he visited his fellow Morencian Leroy Cisneros at his camp near Danang, far up the coast. His friend noticed Draper had lost weight, but remained the affable Mormon kid from back home. When Draper told him he was overdue in returning to his unit, Cisneros asked if he was worried about getting caught. Draper replied: “What are they going to do? Send me to Vietnam?” They planned a huge celebration at the Morenci Hall when they returned, reuniting the nine boys who had gone off to basic training together. As they parted, Cisneros said: “Don’t get shot. We’ll have that big party soon.” A few days later, on Aug. 2, Draper joined 13 other men from his unit on a routine road sweep. Fifty well-armed Vietcong lay in ambush. Advertisement The Marines fought furiously while Lt. Paul Bertlozzi frantically called for reinforcements. Eventually a rapid-deployment team arrived. But it was too late; there were no survivors, the enemy having shot each man in the head to finish them. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The men who died that day on a lonely road in rural Vietnam came from small towns across America: Raymond Abbott of Sugar Grove, Pa.; James Majors of Clute, Tex. And Bobby Draper of Morenci, Ariz. He died less than a month after turning 19. A few days later, a big sedan pulled up at the Draper’s house. A Marine officer knocked on the door. Draper’s mother, Carlene, opened and asked: “What’s happened? What’s happened?” Draper’s father joined them as the officer reported their son’s death. They had just received a letter from him about his trip to Tokyo. Now, the family had to plan a funeral. Family members gathered from as far away as Oklahoma. The community rallied behind them, someone bringing a small trailer to house people at the overcrowded Draper home. Others prepared meals, including many members of the small Mormon community. Draper’s body arrived and rested at Lewellan Funeral Home in nearby Clifton. He lay not far from where he had starred in a hard-fought football game less than two years before. Torrential rains poured the night before his funeral, flooding the local river and threatening to cut off the Mormon ward that hosted the funeral. But the floodwaters subsided, and on Saturday, Aug. 19, miners and their families joined a service led by Bishop Irven Carter. The mourners followed the hearse over to the Clifton Cemetery, nestled in the shadow of towering red rocks. Veterans from the local American Legion Post 28 fired a final salute as “Taps” echoed in the canyon. A few days after the funeral, the Drapers received a letter from President Johnson and his wife expressing their “deep sympathy” on “the loss of your son, Corporal Robert D. Draper.” It concluded: “You are in our prayers at this time of great sorrow.” It was one of 467 duplicate letters sent in August 1967. Draper was the first man from Morenci to die in the Vietnam War, and his death devastated the community, already reeling from a nearly yearlong lockout at the mine. But more deaths would follow. Advertisement Three months later, Stan King died in combat, only two weeks into his tour. He was buried next to Draper. In April 1968, an enemy sniper killed Van Whitmer near Hue. Larry West died in combat in May, only a couple of months into his second tour. Then, in June, Robert Moncayo fell near Khe Sanh after arriving 18 days earlier. The last, Clive Garcia, died in November 1969 while trying to defuse a booby trap. Six of the nine young men who left Morenci that spring of 1966 died in Vietnam. Morenci briefly became a national story, as ABC News, Time and The Los Angeles Times arrived to try to explain the heavy losses for such a small community. They found a people bent but not broken and asking many questions. One person told a reporter: “It’s just like this town has been the butt of a twisted joke. the bodies just keep coming in — one at a time.” In a school newspaper article on Dec. 29, 1969, Bobby’s brother, Ken, wrote about Morenci’s high death rate. He concluded that “the young men of Morenci know how to die for their country,” which people could accept. But he also wrote about the parents of the dead men, praying that the “dreadful war with all of its suffering will end soon.” Morenci again appeared in the news in the early 1980s, when miners staged a three-year strike against Phelps Dodge. But the memory of the Morenci Nine remained. In 1997, the community erected a memorial to the men, including Draper, just outside the new high school (the mine swallowed the old one). In June 2016, the Class of 1966 gathered for its 50th reunion. It opened with heartfelt ceremony honoring the nine that included the only surviving member, Joe Sorrelman. Friends carried white roses to a table in front of a Marine graduation montage of the nine, their young faces contrasting to those in the room. Tears flowed. Morenci is no different from any other small town in America. Countless like it sent their young men off to war, and countless mourned when they didn’t return. For these small towns, Vietnam remains a touchstone, a defining moment in their history, even as memories fade. As Leroy Cisneros told an interviewer years after he returned, “Those guys have been dead for 30 years but not in my mind. I want my kids to at least know that Bobby Draper, their dad’s best friend, died in Vietnam for a good reason.” An earlier version of the photo caption misidentified the man pictured. It is Bobby Draper, not Kyle Longley. It also referred to the wrong hamlet where Bobby Draper was stationed. It was An Hoa, not An Hao. Kyle Longley is a professor at Arizona State University and the author of “The Morenci Marines: A Tale of Small Town America and the Vietnam War,” “Grunts: The American Combat Soldier in Vietnam” and the forthcoming “LBJ’s 1968: Power, Politics and the Presidency in America’s Year of Upheaval.” Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 