I held the syringe up to the light above the bathroom mirror and flicked it a few times with my finger to make sure I had the exact dose of Lupron. I checked my watch to calculate the time in Washington. I pulled the waistline of my pants below my belly button, steadied my feet, wiped my abdomen with an alcohol swab and took a deep breath. As I pulled my arm back to thrust the syringe into my belly, the plane hit turbulence, nearly causing me to plunge the needle into my left arm. I waited for the plane to stabilize and repeated the steps, this time managing to inject myself with the drugs that I hoped would lead to my becoming pregnant. I packed my supplies and walked casually back into the main cabin of the 10-seat Gulfstream that was taking me and my boss, the under secretary of defense for policy, to Afghanistan. That moment in my two-year journey to having my first son in 2010 came to mind recently during a visit to the University of Texas, Austin. “It is so inspiring to see a woman up on that stage talking about national security,” one young woman said after my talk. Another asked how she could become someone like me. Moments like those always leave me with mixed emotions. Yes, I am proud of the years I spent working on security issues at senior levels of government. But I never mention the trials and tribulations of trying — often desperately — to have children in your 40s. Nor do I talk about the days and nights that I missed with my first son while I worked at the White House and the Pentagon. Or about the time in 2011, on my first trip abroad with Secretary of Defense Robert Gates after the birth of my first son, when I forgot parts of my breast pump. A senior White House official brought them with her when she arrived with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton the next day. I cried with joy when our defense attaché handed me the parts in a brown paper bag 24 hours later. I am not complaining. I’ve been spoiled with the riches of a great education, interesting jobs, fabulous mentors and bosses, an amazing husband and — after years of fertility treatments — two beautiful boys. Why, then, is answering the questions posed by those young women in Austin so difficult? I entered this field with a commitment to public service and the hope that I could make a difference. And in those early years, as I worked to develop the skills, network and expertise to excel in national security, I rarely acknowledged gender issues. In fact, I often deliberately ignored them. Yet the national security field poses challenges for women. If they exert confidence, they can be perceived as abrasive or overcompensating. If they don’t, they might be told, as a colleague of mine once was, that they lack “executive presence.” In government, the classified work environment forces mothers (and fathers, too) to choose between making it home for bedtime or serving as the lead on a project. Although subconscious bias, sexism and discrimination remain issues in the United States, they are even more prevalent abroad, where women on American delegations are regularly mistaken for assistants and rarely face a female counterpart across the negotiating table. While women have made clear progress in the field, reaching the top levels of government, progress is uneven. This year, my organization, the Center for a New American Security, convened a bipartisan group of 70 midcareer women from a diverse set of institutions — the State and Defense Departments, think tanks, Congress, defense contractors, media companies, the intelligence community and academia — to share their reflections. Almost all spoke about feeling dismay. For some, the tenor of last year’s presidential campaign had made things worse for women. Others shared stories of bias, stereotyping, discrimination and sexual harassment. Many described having internal censors that prevented them from taking professional risks. Statistics collected by the center bear out their stories. Only 20 percent of senior Pentagon staff positions and 30 percent of senior State Department positions are held by women. While over 50 percent of incoming Foreign Service officers are women, as of July 2016, only 36 percent of assigned ambassadors were women — and that number has since dropped. Within the intelligence community, women account for about 38 percent of the total work force, but hold only 28 percent of senior positions and make up 18 percent of people hired at senior pay levels. At the F.B.I., women hold just 12 percent of the bureau’s 220 senior agent positions. At American think tanks working on foreign policy, women account for just 24 percent of policy experts and 33 percent of the leadership staff. Skewed gender representation also affects the media. A 2014 study found that among the top five Sunday morning political shows on television, 75 percent of all guests and 87 percent of all solo interviewees were men.  None of this is to ignore the positive and inspirational stories. The women we convened were passionate about their careers in national security and feel they are successful contributors when they aren’t held back. We are no longer expected to leave the Foreign Service if we marry. We have seen the appointment of female secretaries of state, national security advisers and under secretary of defense for policy. Almost 100 years since the first woman entered the Foreign Service, women now hold 54 of 169 currently occupied chief of mission positions. At the C.I.A., the percentage of women has grown to 46 percent in 2012, the most recent data available. Science is helping many of us have children later in life, and the government now supports telecommuting. Our efforts to fight discrimination and sexism are succeeding, albeit too slowly. But progress hasn’t erased the paradox that women in this field face. Many of us know that advancing can leave us feeling conflicted. I’ve found ways to succeed as both a national security expert and a mother but I’m not sure what comes next. Do I try to climb higher or stop on this rung, because the further one goes, the harder things get at home? While I was uncertain about what to tell those young women in Austin, I sometimes don’t even know what to tell myself these days. Whenever I’m asked how to navigate a career as a woman in national security, I say work hard, dream big and be true to yourself. That’s part of it. Here’s the other part: You will face countless difficulties, some of which your male colleagues will never encounter. You will wonder whether and when to have children. You will suffer from impostor syndrome. Someone will mistake you for the assistant when you’re the keynote speaker. You will wonder if your male co-workers are getting paid more than you. You will pretend you can breast-feed twice a night and still function normally at work. You will also swell with pride when you help solve an intractable problem. You will feel an overwhelming sense of purpose when a cabinet member asks for your help. You will meet other women who will throw you a lifeline when you need it most. You will multitask like no other. You will challenge age-old assumptions about women. You will make a difference. But know that it will never feel easy. The so-called work-life balance will remain out of reach. And you will always wonder if you’ve gotten it just right.