Following President Trump’s initial threats of “fire and fury” toward North Korea on Aug. 8, Robert Jeffress, the evangelical pastor of the First Baptist Church of Dallas, and a presidential adviser, released a statement claiming that God had given the president authority to “take out” North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. Jeffress was the president’s selected preacher at the traditional pre-inauguration liturgy at St. John’s Episcopal Church and claims to speak with Mr. Trump “on a variety of issues.” Regardless of his political credentials, Jeffress’s theology is shockingly uninformed and dangerous, and it is a sobering reminder of the power of misguided moral statements to influence matters of life and death in policy. President Trump’s language, which he intensified a few days later, evoked apocalyptic nuclear war. Despite what either of the men claim, there is no possible Christian justification for provoking such a conflict. In an interview with The Washington Post, Jeffress backs up his argument by citing Paul, in Romans 13, a famous passage on the relationship between earthly and divine authority. Yet even the casual reader of the Bible will be hard-pressed to recreate this interpretation of Romans. In order to reach his desired conclusion, the pastor rips this passage from its context; Paul is telling Christians to obey the Roman authorities in temporal matters such as taxation, not justifying the authority of one ruler over another. What’s more, Jeffress seemingly fetishizes his own message of violence over the clarion call to love of Romans 13:8: “Owe no one anything, except to love one another; for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law.” Jeffress predicts that “pacifist Christians” will turn to Romans 12:17, “do not repay anyone evil for evil,” to refute him. Beyond his curious citation of this obvious contradiction to his own argument, it is hardly necessary to invoke it given his grossly negligent treatment of the scripture he himself has chosen. The 20th-century theologian Karl Barth wrote “The Epistle to the Romans,” a work belonging to theological canon that has influenced generations of Christian leaders since its publication in 1919. A thinker of the Christian Reformed tradition, Barth sought to counter the liberal religion of his time with a theology rooted in “the Word,” and he found in Romans a fertile field. Barth prophesies against polemicists like Jeffress, writing of Romans, “Should this book come into the hands of such persons, they ought not to begin with the 13th chapter. Those who do not understand the book as a whole will understand least of all what we now have to say.” Barth takes pains to demonstrate that Paul is not calling for theocracy or a government controlled by the Christian Church. Quite the contrary, Barth declares in his commentary on Jeffress’s favored passage, “Men have no right to possess objective right against other men.” It is worth noting that Barth became a leader in the anti-Nazi Confessing Church of Germany. Jeffress told The Post, “God has endowed rulers full power to use whatever means necessary — including war — to stop evil.” I argue that recent history has already demonstrated that the invocation of evil in political rhetoric leads to violence. Think of how President George W. Bush’s “axis of evil” created the moral framework for the Iraq war. If we accept that someone or something is evil, we believe that they will cause harm that must be prevented at all costs. This is the highly flawed argument Jeffress offers in support of a first strike against the North Korean leader and is doubtless contributing to the growing number of Americans in favor of war. There has been discussion about whether the president’s bold words on Kim were improvised or part of a strategy to push China into cracking down on North Korea. Jeffress’s comments reveal a third dimension: a corrupted theology that could supply a misguided moral thrust to the president’s potential course of action. Seen in this light, the vision of “fire and fury” should be taken very seriously and at face value, an apocalyptic statement resulting from a highly unorthodox theology with no basis in the Bible. So how can we bring a halt to this march toward war? The answer lies in theology and ethics as much as it does in politics and strategy. Secular and religious people alike must be aware that moral arguments — whether or not they involve religious tropes — are not just political sideshows but rather can determine the outcomes of the most important policy decisions of this or any time. There is such a thing as incorrect theological and moral thinking, and the best way to neutralize it is with an intellectually and morally superior argument on the same terrain. Only good theology can debunk bad theology. We must all engage in this work as if the future of this republic and its place in the peaceful order of the world depend on it — because they do. Above all, we must acknowledge that government in a liberal democracy such as ours produces outcomes determined by the wider moral environment to which it belongs. As its tolerance of horrors like slavery attest, America’s system of government was not designed with an internal moral compass, but rather reflects the ethical norms of the society that sends representatives to it. As George Washington said in his Farewell Address, “Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports.” If we accept a religious and moral argument that perverts Christian scripture to justify a potential nuclear war, politicians are not solely to blame. Barth himself countered the idea of theocracy by pointing to the temptation of Jesus. In  Matthew 4, Jesus rejects the Devil’s offer of authority over all the kingdoms of the world if Jesus will worship him. In this context, the urge to control the global order is malevolent, not divine. A wiser spiritual adviser than Jeffress would counsel the president that there is no conceivable argument to be found in Christian scripture for threatening death and suffering on a huge scale. His distorted interpretation of the Bible has added more poison to the country’s already-faltering moral condition at a time of international crisis.