This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. The guest writer of today’s newsletter is Bari Weiss, an editor and writer in the Opinion section. “If you’re not outraged, you’re not paying attention.” That was the last Facebook post of Heather D. Heyer, a 32-year-old woman who went out on Saturday to face down white supremacists in Charlottesville and was killed before the day was done; police said 20-year-old James Alex Fields has been charged with second-degree murder in the death. Ms. Heyer’s death, and the injury of 19 others when Mr. Fields reportedly rammed his car into a group of counterprotesters, was the horrific capstone to a weekend of violence in the Virginia college town. Outrage is something Donald Trump typically has in no short supply. As Stephen Hayes reminds readers in The Weekly Standard, this president is promiscuous with his denunciations. “Brit Hume is ‘a dope’ and a ‘know-nothing.’ Mika Brzezinski is ‘dumb as a rock’ and ‘crazy.’ Bill and Hillary Clinton were ‘the real predators.’” Trump is always ready to blast those he believes — often wrongly — to be worthy targets. See: Judge Gonzalo Curiel and the Khan family. But when it came to white nationalists who’d spent the day brandishing swastikas and chanting “Jews will not replace us,” our mad-libbing president offered uncharacteristic restraint: “We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry, and violence. On many sides.” Columnists across the political spectrum, including Josh Levin at Slate and Michael Gerson in The Washington Post, rightly tore into the president for the utter moral failure of this statement. So did many lawmakers. The one group that celebrated it, as our Editorial Board points out, were the white nationalists themselves. There has been no shortage of powerful pieces and tweets over the past 48 hours, but there are three that shouldn’t be missed. The first is this moving symposium in The Times. Let these thoughtful University of Virginia students take you into the eye of the storm. National Review writer David French and his family, especially his black daughter, have been viciously targeted by the alt-right as a result of his longstanding and outspoken opposition to Donald Trump. Read his short piece about how this weekend’s violence was nothing less than the alt-right’s chickens coming home to roost. Dahlia Lithwick is a Charlottesville native who owns a home that ”carries a racially restrictive covenant. No blacks, no Jews.” In other words, she owns a house “that could once have been taken from me by the force of law.” In this powerful rebuttal to the white nationalists’ slogan, “you will not replace us,” she shows how history proves their rallying cry to be “a bald-faced lie.” Amen. On the news. Robert Mueller’s interest in Reince Priebus, Trump’s former chief of staff, suggests that the special counsel is looking for a pattern in the president’s conduct toward fired F.B.I. director James Comey, argues The Washington Post’s Greg Sargent, “which prosecutors seek to establish in obstruction cases.” In The Times. The upcoming total solar eclipse, the first in 99 years to stretch from coast to coast, is right on time, argues our poetic editorial. “Witnessing the eclipse will provide a needed sense of context of who and what we are on earth when the light of the sun — one mere star among billions — is interrupted.” Who among us doesn’t yearn for this kind of “cosmic distraction”? 