My children have a mother with a chronic illness. They live with my rheumatoid arthritis just as much as I do. I was given my diagnosis when all three of them were young, and since then I’ve spent a lot of time worrying about what the daily uncertainty of my condition would mean to them, and whether it would affect their development. They are all teenagers now, one getting ready for college, and I can attest that my illness has indeed affected them. Here’s how. 1. They have acquired patience. We have spent a lot of time in doctors’ offices and hospitals. They’ve used that time to read, draw, play games and get to know the front-office staff. Sometimes they just watch people or daydream. At home, I have not always been physically swift in meeting needs or ferrying them to their destinations. Instead of making futile attempts to rush me, they have learned to use the delays to their advantage. My son, for example, has taught himself to play piano during the time it takes me to get moving and ready in the morning. In an age when electronics can fool us into thinking we needn’t wait for anything, the patience they’ve developed is a virtue that would have been otherwise hard to teach. 2. They have developed flexibility. My children and I have embarked upon many a bike ride or hike, only to have it thwarted by a sudden rheumatic flare. Sometimes we are able to alter the activity to accommodate my pain level. Sometimes we have to scrap the activity altogether. Doing so can be frustrating for my kids. Still, they generally recognize the futility in fretting over the changes — given that the circumstances are beyond our control — and go with the flow. In doing so, they have learned to adapt to sudden changes in plans and problem-solve ways to salvage activities. 3. They have learned to be self-sufficient. I am not always able to complete household chores. My family would rather I expend my healthy energy on quality togetherness anyway. So while I do what I can of the housework, they pick up the slack. They have been doing everything from their own laundry to keeping the house clean to pet care for so many years that these tasks are natural components of their teenage years. Interestingly, as they have assumed more responsibility, they have also requested more. They often fix entire family meals, barring adults from the kitchen, and serve them with flair. They delight in fixing things around the house, taking pride in our home. Their future roommates and partners will be very thankful for this lesson. 4. They have learned to be considerate. Autoimmune diseases are unpredictable. There are days when I am unsteady on my feet. This means nobody can leave anything on the floor, lest I trip. There are days when opening a door is a challenge. My children notice such moments and jump ahead to help. Conversely, they notice when I am capable of doing things myself and give me the space to do so. In learning to navigate my illness-related needs, they have developed a sense for when people need help and when they desire independence. 5. They have witnessed commitment in action. When my rheumatoid arthritis hit, my relationship with my husband changed. As we worked to develop a new normal, he willingly chose to become the de facto caregiver to me while still parenting our three young children. In turn, I had to learn to let go of control and to accept new divisions of labor. We both have had to maintain a healthy sense of humor. Over the years, we have discerned how to tweak our relationship according to my abilities, learning when to be spontaneous (during periods of health) and when to scale back on activities and stress (during flares). Through it all, he has massaged my feet and legs every single night to reduce my pain. Many kids are grown and out of the house before their parents face health challenges. They don’t always see the daily minutiae of caring for one another. A lesson like this can be truly life-changing for young people as they develop a sense of their own future long-term relationships. Rather than falling into a mind-set that youth and perfection are priorities in a relationship, my children have seen firsthand that commitment involves adapting to changing circumstances with a heavy dose of mutual respect. 6. They have developed compassion.  Rheumatoid arthritis can cause pain, swelling, depression, anxiety, fatigue and a slew of other unpleasant symptoms. My children have accompanied me through them all. In doing so, their capacity for compassion has increased exponentially. When they encounter people with their own challenges, they are adept at sensing how they might be present for them if necessary. My eldest daughter has even channeled her compassion into working toward a career as a nurse practitioner. 7. They have learned not to judge by appearances or jump to conclusions. Having seen me lose the use of my knee in the middle of an ordinary moment, without provocation, my children understand that what they see might not tell a whole story. So when the checker at the market is frowning and seems unfriendly or when an elderly person seems to scowl at them, they are less likely to judge them or take it personally. They recognize that they cannot make assumptions based upon the small amount of information they have. 8. They have developed an appreciation for service. I often hear people speak of service as if it were a box they need to check off at some point, for a transcript or to boost a future career, or an unspoken requirement of their faith. As people living with someone who needs regular help, my children enjoy service without any agenda — except perhaps the intrinsic reward of knowing they were helpful. In turn, I work to serve their needs in ways that I can. With that, they have also learned that all service does not look the same. 9. They have learned that abilities do not define a person. While I’m not always able kick the ball around or boogie-board with the kids like their father does, I am the choice for a good story, a clever idea, problem solving or a hearty laugh. We all have our thing. This one is simple. I see them working to translate it to their own abilities as well: Just because one sibling can do something doesn’t mean they all should master that skill. Most important, they have learned that their mother is no less a woman, no less interesting, no less a person than I was when I could bike 30 miles with them. This means our relationship is rooted in so much more than what I can do for them. 10. They have learned that it is O.K. to experience pain and express strong emotions. Both of my daughters also struggle with pain, my eldest from a childhood illness and my youngest from recently diagnosed juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. My eldest child often pushed through her pain to the point of overdoing it. It can be healthy to push through some pain when possible. But at some point she had learned to keep her pain to herself, so much so that on her worst day, I found her sobbing alone in pain. Since she has seen me with no choice but to wave the white flag to pain at times, she has learned to do the same. All three of us work to maintain balance — knowing when we need to flex and when we need to release, when to put pain first and when to let it fade into the moment. Though my children would certainly prefer not to have to deal with their mom’s having a chronic illness, there have been many gifts along this road. The growth they have experienced and the lessons they have learned are sticking, and for that, we are all grateful.