It’s not often that you see liberal commenters and progressive activists cheering for the chief executives of giant multinational corporations. But today, the head honchos of Merck, Under Armour and Intel are being held up as heroes thanks to their decision to resign from President Trump’s business advisory council, following Mr. Trump’s tepid response to white supremacist violence this past weekend in Charlottesville, Va. Kenneth Frazier, the Merck C.E.O., published his statement first on Twitter Monday morning. The praise rolled in. “Right side of history, sir,” wrote one Twitter user. “Your employees have a C.E.O. with great moral fiber,” wrote another. Kevin Plank of Under Armour and Brian Krzanich of Intel posted resignation statements of their own later in the day. “Mr. Frazier, thank you for your courageous stand,” Representative Keith Ellison tweeted. “A HERO: Ken Frazier,” The Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect tweeted. “Second CEO steps off Trump’s council...unlike Trump, Kevin Plank loves our country,” wrote Amy Siskind, a prominent progressive who runs the New Agenda, an organization that focuses on equality for women and girls. It’s all a bit confusing, especially when you examine the statements the executives released to explain their decisions. “America’s leaders must honor our fundamental values by clearly rejecting expressions of hatred, bigotry and group supremacy,” wrote Mr. Frazier, who is black. Condemning “group supremacy” is a neat way to elide the real issue. The rally in Charlottesville was not simply a group of random people coming together to declare they were superior. The problem in Charlottesville was white supremacy, and the protesters gathered in that historic city for a reason: The City Council had recently voted to remove a statue of the Confederate general Robert E. Lee and to rename two of its parks that commemorated the Confederacy. In his statement, Mr. Plank ignored the neo-Nazis altogether, instead explaining that he was stepping down because “Under Armour engages in innovation and sports, not politics.” He said he would “continue to focus my efforts on inspiring every person that they can do anything through the power of sport which promotes unity, diversity and inclusion.” Later Monday night, Mr. Krzanich of Intel resigned from the council, saying: “I resigned to call attention to the serious harm our divided political climate is causing to critical issues, including the serious need to address the decline of American manufacturing.” Oh. While Mr. Krzanich did condemn white supremacists by name later on in the statement — “Earlier today I called on all leaders to condemn the white supremacists and their ilk who marched and committed violence” — he seems to have resigned in order to raise awareness about our political divide. Or is it manufacturing? That’s not exactly a call to arms. For a better model, look to Richard Trumka, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. representative on the council, who resigned Tuesday evening with a harsh rebuke: “President Trump’s remarks today repudiate his forced remarks yesterday about the KKK and neo-Nazis. We must resign on behalf of America’s working people, who reject all notions of legitimacy of these bigoted groups.” Don’t get me wrong: I’m thrilled that the men stepped down. And on Tuesday afternoon, Scott Paul, of the nonprofit Alliance for American Manufacturing, dropped out. Bravo to him, too. I hope others on the council — including Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase, Jack Welch of G.E. and Denise Morrison of Campbell — follow their lead. But with Mr. Trump in the White House, it often feels like the bar for moral behavior is so low as to be almost nonexistent. James Comey didn’t want to hug Mr. Trump! John McCain voted no on a health care bill that had been widely derided as being terrible! Jeff Sessions said driving a car into a group of anti-Nazi protesters and murdering one is domestic terrorism! It’s fine to thank these executives for doing the right thing. But to look to these men as brave leaders? Let’s not lower our standards, both politically and morally, so far that we’re cheering for the absolute bare minimum of human decency.