NEW ORLEANS — On Aug. 5, my wife got a series of frantic text messages from a friend who was watching her car fill with water. There was no hurricane, no tropical storm, but over eight inches of rain had fallen that afternoon, and the city’s pumps couldn’t keep up. Another friend had to abandon her car under a highway overpass and wade a mile across town, in the dark, to get home to her baby daughter. It was the second time in two weeks that parts of New Orleans flooded. Because of climate change, these floods represent the city’s “new normal,” according to Cedric Grant, the former head of the Sewerage and Water Board, the local agency charged with operating the city’s drainage infrastructure. “We’re now in a situation,” Mr. Grant said, “where we receive more rain than anybody could have imagined on a regular basis.” The trouble wasn’t unique to New Orleans, he added, in what seemed to be a mixture of fear and defensiveness; he soon resigned when it emerged that several of the city’s pumps had been out of order. Across the country, as our infrastructure ages, what was once regarded as extraordinary weather is increasingly ordinary. The day before, President Trump tweeted that he was preparing for hurricane season. I, too, try to be prepared. During hurricane season, I pay close attention to the weather forecast. I keep my gas tank full. My wife and I pre-argue about what we will take with us if we have to evacuate. Which is to say, I might have taken some comfort in the president’s tweet if he hadn’t written it on the 65th day of hurricane season. President Trump’s late message is part of a broader pattern of his shirking federal action on weather and climate. He waited over three months to nominate an administrator for the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for example, who was confirmed by the Senate only late in June. That’s when Tropical Storm Cindy was prompting flash flood warnings across the Gulf Coast, and my wife and I were bickering over whether we would bring her pet rabbit or my Martin guitar (don’t worry, the rabbit won). Other storms have come and gone, yet President Trump still has not nominated anyone to lead the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. President Barack Obama announced his nominee for N.O.A.A. administrator a full month before he took office. When — or, scary to consider, if — President Trump finally names an N.O.A.A. administrator, he or she will face a crisis. The Trump administration has proposed cutting that department’s budget by nearly 20 percent, reductions that scientists say may imperil their ability to make accurate hurricane predictions and will limit climate research. The Trump budget would also cut funding to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, including drastic reductions to its Pre-Disaster Mitigation Grant Program and the Flood Hazard Mapping Program. To make matters worse, President Trump announced on Tuesday that he was rescinding a rule requiring federal infrastructure projects to account for rising seas. The administration’s seeming indifference to these issues is baffling to many of us here in hurricane country, which of course comprises much of the country as a whole. Before a storm, N.O.A.A. helps us make informed decisions about potential risks; and when the big ones come, F.E.M.A. helps us get back on our feet. In Louisiana, we know from horrific experience that limiting government’s ability to forecast and respond to extreme weather can mean death. I know a man in Plaquemines Parish, 60 miles downriver from New Orleans, who after Katrina rebuilt his home 21 feet off the ground, on pilings, to keep above storm surges. I asked him once why he didn’t just move away. He explained that his family had lived there for generations. “No matter where you go, you have disasters. You got tornadoes, you got earthquakes,” he added, echoing a common refrain around Louisiana. “You got danger anywhere, and at least I know it’s coming with a hurricane because it’s advertised, and I can track it pretty close. If it looks like it’s going to be a direct hit, I’m leaving!” The warnings that enable him, and the rest of us, to take care of ourselves come from the N.O.A.A. If you have a place to evacuate to, and the means to get there, a good forecast can prevent hurricane casualties. These are daunting challenges for too many of my neighbors, but new programs supported by the N.O.A.A. and F.E.M.A. are helping. When government works, it can become invisible. How often do you think about the road in front of your house unless there’s a pothole? How often do you think about diplomats unless nuclear war looms? But particularly when it comes to disaster mitigation and response, it is necessary to get prepared, in advance, while the sun is still shining. That’s the whole point. You don’t want to wait until the last minute to try to get gas, herd the rabbit and obsess about whether the guitar is safer staying in New Orleans or being lashed to the roof of the car. I was alarmed to read that the Environmental Protection Agency administrator, Scott Pruitt, wants to convene “red team-blue team” exercises to debate the validity of climate science. In Louisiana, we already know the danger of bigger and more frequent storms; we have already tested what happens when F.E.M.A. is left rudderless in stormy times. Back in July, I tracked the fourth tropical storm of the season as it made its way across the Atlantic Ocean. Typically, the fourth tropical storm doesn’t form until late August, but it came early this year. According to a predetermined list, the storm happened to share its name with the president: Don. In this case, Don was ahead of schedule. Ultimately, observers reported that Don degenerated and lost its center. But I stayed alert nonetheless. Disorganized bluster can be dangerous, too.