Mobile, Ala. — Former Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore delivered a striking rebuke Tuesday to President Trump and the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell. Casual observers nationwide might marvel that Mr. Moore, twice evicted from the state high court for judicial-ethics violations, ran substantially ahead of the incumbent senator Luther Strange in Alabama’s special-election Republican primary — this, despite being outspent by more than 10 to 1, and despite Mr. Trump’s enthusiastic endorsement of Mr. Strange. But Mr. Moore had a few things going for him that outsiders seem to have missed. Mr. Strange has his own ethical stench. More important, the rest of the country just doesn’t get how much Alabama voters like and trust Mr. Moore. To understand the Strange stench, one must consider the context of his ascension to the Senate. He was appointed by Gov. Robert Bentley, not long before Mr. Bentley resigned over a cringe-inducing affair with a top aide, Rebekah Mason, and his heavy-handed attempts to cover it up, including (apparently) misuse of state funds. Mr. Bentley had run as a moral exemplar and a man of humility — but instead was revealed, by copious evidence, as a self-serving bully. The state House of Representatives had begun an impeachment inquiry into his conduct, but Mr. Strange, then the state’s attorney general, curiously asked the House to desist while his own office supposedly conducted a criminal investigation. Shortly thereafter, when Mr. Trump chose Senator Jeff Sessions as attorney general, Mr. Strange sought and secured Mr. Bentley’s appointment as Mr. Sessions’s temporary replacement — at the exact same time Mr. Strange’s office was slowly investigating Mr. Bentley. To anyone watching in Alabama, Mr. Strange looked like a would-be executioner seeking favors from the king whose neck he alone could decide to guillotine. It didn’t matter that, as Mr. Strange has repeatedly noted, his successor secured a (lenient) plea deal that removed Mr. Bentley from office anyway: Many voters resent what looked like a tacit, wink-and-nod understanding between Mr. Bentley and Mr. Strange. Then they see Mr. McConnell’s political action committee pledge to spend an astonishing (by Alabama standards) $8 million on behalf of Mr. Strange, a former federal lobbyist, and that does it — for many voters, Mr. Strange is an irredeemably slick, deal-making insider. Against that stands Mr. Moore, whose past official ethics violations might look disqualifying outside Alabama, but at home were viewed by some as a badge of honor. In 2003 and again (after a 2012 comeback) in 2016, Mr. Moore was evicted as chief justice for refusing to comply with federal court decisions. But Mr. Moore’s violations, unlike Mr. Strange’s, were not those of someone trying to get a job in Washington, but of someone standing against Washington. Rather than being seen as sacrificing justice for his own ambition, Mr. Moore is seen as having sacrificed himself for a higher justice. Agree (as do most Alabama Republicans) or disagree with the supposed higher justice of honoring the Ten Commandments (the basis for his 2003 removal) or resisting gay marriage (the basis for his 2016 ejection), many voters regard Mr. Moore as a sincere servant to a cause. Granted, Alabama Republicans twice rejected Mr. Moore, overwhelmingly, when he ran for governor. But the first time, in 2006, was when unattractive details of his messy first eviction from office were still fresh — details such as his personal copyright notice on the 5,280-pound Ten Commandments monument he erected at the state high court. That campaign also took place against a popular Republican incumbent whom voters wanted to retain. In his second try for governor, in 2010, Mr. Moore seemed an underfunded has-been, already rejected for the office — and perhaps not deemed to have an executive skill-set. Just two years later, though, what remained in the public mind was the image of the lonely martyr, fighting for God’s justice. So, in an upset against two respected and well-funded primary opponents, running for his familiar old court seat rather than to lead the whole state government, Mr. Moore won that 2012 primary without even needing a runoff — and then defeated a spirited Democrat in the general election. What Mr. Moore proved then was that his grass-roots organization, through evangelical churches and through new forms of social media, could turn out voters in a way traditional politicians couldn’t. In any low-turnout special election, especially, his enthusiastic base of supporters would provide him an asset no money could buy. (To my chagrin, I saw that organization in action. Mr. Moore campaigned quite specifically against me when I temporarily left journalism to run in a special election for Congress in 2013; his candidate performed twice as well on Primary Day as polling had indicated, thus qualifying for the runoff, while leaving me in fourth place among nine entrants.) Thus, running to represent Alabama’s angst against Washington, as an advocate in a 100-person Senate rather than a chief executive, Mr. Moore was always a strong bet at least to make the primary runoff. When Mr. McConnell’s PAC began running misleading ads against Mr. Moore’s personal finances, it only enhanced the judge’s reputation as anti-establishment hero. What some didn’t expect was that Mr. Moore would run first, rather than second, against the well-funded Mr. Strange, especially after Mr. Trump went “all in” for Mr. Strange with tweets and robocalls. That Mr. Moore ran a full six percentage points ahead of Strange (39-33) shows that not even this Trump-loving state Republican base admires the president more than it admires its “Ten Commandments” folk hero. Despite renewed efforts by Mr. Trump and Mr. McConnell, Mr. Moore’s prospects in the September runoff look good: He likely will inherit most of the 20 percent who supported hard-line conservative, third-place finisher Mo Brooks — who was relentlessly attacked by Mr. Strange’s ads and who in turn strongly blasted Mr. Strange during his concession speech. In this overwhelmingly Republican state, Mr. Moore is the betting favorite to become the newest United States senator. For the political tough-guy reputations of Mr. McConnell and Mr. Trump, the blow would be monumental.