I’ve been haunted by a story from Iran that appeared in The Times back in May. It described a campaign for the Tehran City Council by Payam Mohebi, a veterinarian who explained that he was running “for the animals.” The clerics in Iran regard dogs as impure, and it’s against the law to have one. Dog owners who defy the ban are subject to a fine, 60 lashes and the possible execution of their pet. Dr. Mohedi’s campaign poster showed him with a stray dog. That was gutsy (he lost the race), but what has stuck with me is what he had to say to Thomas Erdbrink, The Times’s Tehran bureau chief, about the city’s elected leadership: “We have one million pets in this city — what are they thinking? There is a massive gap between our politicians and us.” The image of a government as disconnected as that from the will of the people it purports to serve should leave us shaking our heads in sympathy and dismay. But look in the mirror: The image that reflects back is our own. Millions of Americans oppose repeal of the Affordable Care Act; in one poll in late June, only 12 percent supported the Senate Republican plan then pending. A separate poll that month found that overall support for the existing law had passed the 50 percent mark for the first time, probably because of increased public appreciation of its benefits and the consequences of doing away with the law. And yet the Congress of the United States spent months doing almost nothing else but trying different ways to strip people of their health coverage. What were they thinking? O.K., in fairness, the Senate has devoted time to confirming President Trump’s judicial nominees, some of dubious merit. Last month, on a party-line vote of 51 to 47, the Senate confirmed a Kentucky lawyer, John K. Bush, to the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. Under the pseudonym G. Morris, Judge Bush was a regular blogger on a conservative site called Elephants in the Bluegrass, on which he shared his opinion that Roe v. Wade was one of “the two greatest tragedies in our country”; the other was the Dred Scott case, the decision that denied American citizenship to slaves. The Senate has been slower to approve another Trump nominee, Damien Schiff, a staff lawyer for the right-wing Pacific Legal Foundation nominated to the United States Court of Federal Claims, perhaps because on his own blog he called Justice Anthony M. Kennedy a “judicial prostitute.” Less than a third of the American public supports cutting off the federal money that reimburses Planned Parenthood for the care it provides to Medicaid patients. Yet Republican congressional leaders turn reflexively to “defunding” Planned Parenthood whenever they have nothing else to do. What are they thinking? The Supreme Court has come to rest — albeit perhaps more from exhaustion than conviction — on the constitutionality of at least some version of affirmative action in higher education, as in the 2016 decision that upheld the long contested program at the University of Texas. Yet the Trump administration has evidently concluded that this would be a dandy time to stir the pot and throw the federal government’s muscle into a cause that has relied on conservative foundation money and painstakingly recruited plaintiffs. What are they thinking? Support for the environment has deep bipartisan roots, going back to the 1970s, when the architecture of today’s environmental regulation was created by such measures as the Clean Air and Water Acts and the establishment of the Environmental Protection Agency, all signed into law by President Richard Nixon. Public support remains strong and growing. A Gallup Poll this spring found that 71 percent favor alternative energy sources, rather than continuing to develop fossil fuel resources. But President Trump, in love with coal and the country’s dwindling population of miners, has placed in charge of his environmental program a man who has spent his adult life committed to the destruction of environment-friendly policies and who is running the Environmental Protection Agency by secrecy and fear. What are they thinking? I’m not naïve. It’s obvious what the current crop is doing — doing as much as they can to implement their agenda, or at least showing the base that they tried and tried again. And I’ll credit the E.P.A. administrator, Scott Pruitt, with the sincerity of his convictions, even though those convictions make him breathtakingly ill suited for the position he holds. At least no one can call him a hypocrite, a label that comfortably fits many of the other players in our current dramas. So the question isn’t what they’re doing. It’s the question that Dr. Mohedi posed: What are they thinking? A million pet owners in Tehran may eventually find an alternative to submitting to 60 lashes, although it may take a long time for another path to emerge. How long before we as Americans demand that our leaders turn their attention to real problems, not made-up ones driven by political ideology, religious doctrine and greed? And what is there to say about a president who has no trouble attacking Kenneth Frazier, a principled and inspiring captain of American industry who dared to stand up to him, while being unable to stay on script for more than 24 hours in condemning the racist violence in Charlottesville, Va., without describing “both sides” as morally equivalent? It was almost exactly a year ago that Donald Trump, speaking at a rally in Michigan, peddled himself to African-American voters by asking them: “What the hell do you have lose?” If Americans, black or white, didn’t know the answer to that question before, we do now.