As a son of the South, I’m glad to see folks finally getting their act together on the hundreds of Confederate monuments spread around the region — folks like the Republican governor of Tennessee, Bill Haslam, who recently endorsed removing a bust of Nathan Bedford Forrest from the state Capitol. That’s low-hanging fruit; Forrest was a Confederate monster who massacred black soldiers and later helped found the Klan. Still, it’s a start. But I also know that these monuments, taken as a whole, are themselves low-hanging fruit. I grew up in Nashville, where, within 10 minutes on my bike, I could be riding along Jefferson Davis Drive, Confederate Drive, General Forrest Court, Robert E. Lee Court and, confusingly, two separate Robert E. Lee Drives. My Boy Scout troop went to the national jamboree at Virginia’s Fort A. P. Hill, named for a Confederate general. A few classmates went to college at Washington and Lee. You get the point — removing the legacy of the Confederacy is harder than toppling a few statues. The difficulty doesn’t lie just in changing people’s addresses or diplomas. I grew up in a decently liberal family and was taught all the right notions about tolerance and civil rights and the awful history of slavery. But somehow, as a kid, riding my bike along Robert E. Lee Drive never really bothered me. I knew full well what Lee stood for; had I stopped for a second, I might have imagined how it would feel to be a black person riding along that same street. But that’s the point: I didn’t, because it all just seemed so natural, so all encompassing. Not ideal, but unavoidable. So when people ask why, in 2017, most white people in the South don’t do more to confront the memory of the Confederacy, that’s why. Yes, some small number are white supremacists. A larger number, though still a minority, cling to the idea that the memory of the Confederacy is about “heritage, not hate.” For most, I’m convinced, it’s like a slight stink in the air. Unpleasant, perhaps, but everywhere, and so it’s something you don’t think or do much about, and don’t understand the fuss when someone does. And isn’t that the insidious thing about racism, generally? Growing up, I never knew a Klansman. I never saw a cross burning, or a gang of skinheads beat up a black man. But my sweet, sweet grandmother liked to talk about “those cute little pickaninnies” she’d see on shopping trips downtown. What was I going to do? I couldn’t change grandmothers. A boy in my school golf club detested the fact that the nearby public course was popular with black people, and said so every time we played together. But I had to take a sport, and I did love golf. Of course, there’s an obvious right answer. I should have confronted my grandmother. I should have challenged my golf partner. But there’s an equally obvious answer why I didn’t. Because racism was quietly everywhere, in the names of schools and streets as much as the ignorant musings of classmates. It was a low drone that never, in my life, seemed to rise to the point of moral urgency. I didn’t become acclimated to it — I never knew otherwise. I’d like to think I grew out of that; I’m ashamed of my obliviousness. Clearly, it’s not a life sentence, as white and black Southerners have shown in anti-monument protests in Nashville, Durham, N.C., and elsewhere over the last few days. They make me feel proud, and humbled. We’re only at the beginning of a long-needed, long-awaited iconoclasm, and I expect this time it will go much further than anyone could have expected, just weeks ago. Still, if it ends with toppling a few monuments, it will have failed. As he often does, President Trump, in saying something very wrong, inadvertently got something very right when he said that Confederate statues are a part of our culture. I imagine he meant that they celebrate Lee’s and Forrest’s contributions to America, whatever those were. That is rubbish. But he was right in a different way. The statues are only the most obvious instances of a deep, stubborn reality about the South. The symbols of the Confederacy, and therefore of white supremacy, are everywhere a part of life, ingrained in commutes and school schedules and college applications, as seemingly natural and pervasive as water, so that you never think to do anything about them. It’s time that changed.