Every Friday evening, with sadness and with pride, I make a 90-minute trek from Columbia University to Sing Sing Correctional Facility to teach a drugs and behavior course. My students, who are bright and predominantly black, enthusiastically engage with the curriculum, not least because some of them have a personal stake in the subject. Several are serving time for a drug-related offense, as are hundreds of thousands of other Americans. On Aug. 10, driven largely by public perception that many white Americans are experiencing problems and even dying from opioid use, Donald Trump proclaimed the opioid problem a national emergency. The president’s announcement appeared to consolidate a shift in the way we view certain drug users. They are now patients in need of our help and understanding, rather than criminals deserving scorn and incarceration. This was made abundantly clear in 2014 when the governor of Vermont, Peter Shumlin, devoted his entire State of the State address to the “heroin crisis.” He urged his overwhelmingly white electorate to deal with addiction “as a public health crisis, providing treatment and support, rather than simply doling out punishment, claiming victory and moving on to our next conviction.” Public officials from both parties and throughout the United States have echoed these sentiments, which ultimately spurred the White House to form the task force that urged Mr. Trump to declare an emergency. What looks like a radical shift to a more enlightened drug policy — one that favors treatment over incarceration — has encouraged many to hope that there will be far fewer drug-related arrests than there were in previous decades. I don’t count myself among the optimists. Don’t get me wrong: I support the approach. It’s what we should do. But it is not, historically, what we have done for all of our citizens. During the so-called crack epidemic in the late 1980s, the perceived user and trafficker of crack was black, young and menacing. But a majority of crack users were white, and most drug users buy their drugs from dealers within their own racial group. In 1992, though, more than 90 percent of those sentenced under the harsh crack cocaine laws that were passed in the late ’80s were black. They were required to serve a minimum prison sentence of at least five years for small amounts of crack, even if they were first-time offenders. To the extent that the use of crack among whites was acknowledged, newspaper articles sympathetically detailed the plight of white middle-class crack users. It was seen as a hazard of stressful professional lifestyles. According to this scenario, the victims — Wall Street executives, computer programmers and the like — had initially snorted cocaine recreationally after hours but had gradually moved on to smoking the drug during work time. For this demographic, medical experts were quoted extolling the effectiveness of treatment. Any law enforcement perspective was conspicuous by its absence. Public service announcements, geared toward middle-class crack users, encouraged sympathy and not judgment. This pattern of racial differentiation — one drug policy for white users and another for black users — followed the format of the heroin crisis of the 1970s. The face of the heroin addict then, as the newspapers told it, was black, destitute and engaged in repetitive petty crimes to feed his or her habit. New York State’s infamous 1973 Rockefeller drug laws created mandatory minimum prison sentences of 15 years to life for possession of small amounts of heroin or other drugs — and served as a model for the federal cocaine law. More than 90 percent of those convicted under the Rockefeller laws were black or Latino, even though they represented a minority of drug users. This punitive approach to black heroin users coincided with a great expansion of methadone maintenance programs — for mainly white “patients.” Even President Richard Nixon was a fan, praising methadone as “a useful tool in the work of rehabilitating heroin addicts,” one that “ought to be available to those who must do this work.” This characteristically American pattern of cognitive flexibility on drug policy, with harsh penalties for some and sympathetic treatment for others, thus has a long history — one that continues to this day. Most opioid users are white. The country recognizes this. That is one reason Republican senators from those states hit hardest by opioid-related deaths withheld their support from the recent Senate health care bill — they saw it as underfunding treatment for opioid dependence. But the humane approach is only part of the picture. Multiple states have drafted or passed legislation that enhances penalties for opioid possession and trafficking. In some states, prosecutors can now charge a drug dealer with murder for selling drugs to someone who died from an overdose. Deaths related to fentanyl, a potent synthetic opioid, have fueled such initiatives. Kentucky’s new law makes the sale of fentanyl, in any amount, punishable by prison sentence of up to 10 years. Sound familiar? If past drug law enforcement action is predictive of future behavior, most of those convicted of opioid-related crimes will be black and brown. Recent federal data back this up: More than 80 percent of those convicted of heroin trafficking are black or Latino, although all racial groups buy and sell drugs at roughly the same rate. This is largely because of the discretionary nature of drug law enforcement, which continues to focus mostly on black and Latino communities. This is well documented: For example, police are three times more likely to search the car of a stopped black driver than that of a stopped white driver.  The reimposition by Attorney General Jeff Sessions of more mandatory minimum prison sentences for drug offenses will result in more black and brown people locked away. This is not just anachronistic, mean and racist but also helps to obscure the actual black experience of opioid use: While the death rate among whites from overdose has risen most steeply in recent years, by 267 percent from 2010 to 2014, the mortality rate for black users has risen by a comparable 213 percent over the same period. Yet the face of the sympathetic, suffering opioid addict who deserves help and treatment is not black. Not in Mr. Sessions’s world, nor in Mr. Trump’s. The corrections officer’s abrupt, loud knock on the thick glass window signals the end of our class period. My students stoically prepare to go back to being inmates. And I prepare to leave, as I do every Friday night, with the same sinking feeling that our approach to dealing with drugs hasn’t appreciably changed in more than a century. I want better for my students at Sing Sing and better for all Americans, including the black and brown ones.