This summer I went swimming, this summer I might have drowned But I held my breath and I kicked my feet and I moved my arms around This summer I swam in the ocean and I swam in a swimming pool Salt my wounds, chlorine my eyes, I’m a self-destructive fool — “The Swimming Song”  I wrote those lyrics in 1974. For 50 years I’ve been traveling around the world performing, and along with my guitar I always pack a bathing suit and goggles. From the beginning, a lot of my life has been about me in the water, and it’s stayed that way for decades, in pools, ponds, reservoirs, rivers, oceans and bays. My father, growing up on Long Island and spending summers in Rhode Island and Maine, was a superb swimmer. When sufficiently lubricated, he could be graceful on the country club dance floor, but on dry land he was, for the most part, an awkward and hesitant biped. Watching him swim was to witness a metamorphosis. He became a boy again, seemingly shedding not only decades, but also anxieties and doubts. His Australian crawl was not so much a crawl as a glide, his strokes propelling him forward in quick little lurches, allowing him to cut through the water the way a rowing shell does. Conversely, my mother spent her childhood in landlocked south-central Georgia and could barely swim a stroke. She had a fear of the water that went back to a terrifying experience she’d had when she was baptized at age 8 in a cold, muddy river. It was a full-body immersion, a kind of sacramental precursor to waterboarding. As a young married woman living in the Northeast, out of her element, she tried to conquer her water phobia. There are home movies of her nervously pretending to swim and frolic at the beach, but she never goes in over her head. Perhaps because of her anxieties, she made sure her kids could swim, and we started classes early. I remember a boys-only class at a Y.M.C.A. For some reason we swam naked. That would never happen today, except maybe in Scandinavia. When we were preteens, my sisters, brother and I were on the Bedford Golf and Tennis Club swim team. We learned flip turns and racing dives and garnered ribbons at meets with other clubs. I was a fair to middling freestyler, but I really excelled on the one-meter diving board. I spent hours bouncing up and out, as high and far as I could to impress girls and irritate grown-ups a few free-falling seconds later with my explosive cannonballs and cascade-producing one-legged can openers. Even back then I knew it was all about making the biggest splash possible. Here are my Top 10 swimming spots — not in any particular order — the result of those 50 years on the road. 1. The 40 Foot. In Sandycove, just south of central Dublin. The first section of “Ulysses” ends with Buck Mulligan taking a dip there, plunging into “the scrotum-tightening sea.” Originally a men’s-only nude bathing spot, it is now frequented by swim-suited crazies of both sexes. I’ve been going to the 40 Foot for about 30 years, and it’s always really cold. It’s not really a swim, as such, but rather an in-and-out experience, often punctuated by a bloodcurdling scream upon submersion. 2. The Andrew “Boy” Charlton. A heated, saltwater swimming pool on the shore of Woolloomooloo Bay in Sydney, Australia. Charlton was an Aussie swimming prodigy who, at age 16 in 1924, beat the older Arne Borg in front of about 8,000 spectators. These days the great swimmers, gymnasts and mandolin players all seem to be kids. 3. The Highgate or Hampstead Ponds. Three freshwater ponds (one male, one female, one mixed) in Hampstead Heath, North London. When I first started going to the men’s-only pond in the early ’80s, what you saw in the open-air changing area were either wrinkly, tanned nudists or pasty, out-of-shape Hasidim from Golders Green, hastily changing into their swimming trunks, using the wraparound towel maneuver. Then word got out about the nude sunbathing aspect of the place, and the men’s pond became a gay cruising spot, though now there’s a special enclosed area for all that. I still go there because the swimming is great. The Hasidim have gone elsewhere. 4. The Western Baths Club. An indoor Victorian-era private swimming and leisure club, founded in 1876, in Hillhead, Glasgow. The first thing that grabs your attention are the period trapeze and exercise rings that hang over the swimming pool. 5. Deep Eddy Pool. In Austin, Tex. This is acclaimed as the oldest swimming pool in the state, with a bathhouse built in 1936. The pool — fed from springs — was the centerpiece of the Deep Eddy Bathing Beach, a resort. Lorena’s Diving Horse was a popular attraction. 6. Barton Springs Pool. Also in Austin and chlorine-free. In 1837, William Barton, an early settler in the area, named the springs after his daughters. Not great lap swimming, but it’s swinging Austin, so topless sun bathing isn’t uncommon. 7. Lake Waccabuc. I’ve been making ablutionary pilgrimages to this lovely little body of water, a private lake in northern Westchester County, for much of my life, having been dunked and swished around in it as a toddler when my parents were members of the Waccabuc Country Club. Legend has it that in the 1800s, an elephant named Old Bet, starring in a nearby circus, caught a chill and died, and because of frozen ground conditions, the circus people carted the three-ton pachyderm out to the middle of iced-over Waccabuc. They left her there and waited for the thaw. Old Bet’s bones must be resting somewhere on the bottom to this day. At one end of the lake is Castle Rock, which is not so much a rock as a cliff that rises from the water’s surface. From its summit, generations of beer-chugging (and, technically, trespassing) teenagers have leapt straight into midair, to savor the thrilling three-second, 50-foot plummet. I jumped off Castle Rock as a kid and then again on my 30th birthday in 1976, when I was looped on Champagne and showing off for friends. When my 40th rolled round, I did it again, alone and sober. There were repeat jumps for my 50th and 60th, despite pleas from loved ones to stop already. On my 70th, last year, I stayed the hell away. 8. “East Beach,” Watch Hill, R.I. This was the ocean beach of my childhood, where my father taught me how to ride waves. 9. Palm Beach. A beautiful swimming spot about 25 miles north of Sydney. I first went to Australia in 1982, and my dad came along on that tour. We rode waves together for the last time at Palm Beach. 10. Aquatic Park, San Francisco. The water in San Francisco Bay in summer (September and October) is bracing, and in February it has a real snap to it. Strong tides are always a major factor — it can take three-quarters of an hour to get out to a seemingly close buoy, while the return journey back might take you seven minutes. A note to my grieving survivors: Kindly sprinkle my ashes at all the above locations.