Jerry Lewis, who died Sunday at 91, was not a man often overlooked, or pigeonholed. But in reckoning with his legacy, there is often one surprising omission. He’s rarely featured in discussions of the pantheon of mid-20th century Jewish comedy. Possibly this was because of his overwhelming popularity, tending to remove the necessity for any qualifying adjective. Looking at pictures of the crowds flocking to catch a glimpse of him and his partner, Dean Martin, at their hotels, you’d think you were witnessing Beatlemania. Only Martin and Lewis were 10 years earlier. It certainly had something to do with his comedy itself, which was rarely, if ever, identifiably Jewish in the manner of Lenny Bruce, Mel Brooks or Woody Allen. But Mr. Lewis’s most successful work was, in its own way, a fundamental part of the great story of Jewish comedy in America — a story that also functions as a microcosm of American Jewish life writ large. It was a metaphor for the successes, and the anxieties, of a generation of postwar American Jews of the 1950s: busily engaged, often extraordinarily successful, and trying to prove they were no different than everyone else. They wanted to believe they were the same, and yet their creative success, paradoxically, was borne of the tension that their very real difference created. The comedian’s two most accomplished successes are cases in point. The Martin and Lewis partnership worked (spectacularly) in the way most comic duos do: the juxtaposition of opposites. Mr. Martin was the suave, elegant straight man; Mr. Lewis was manic and kinetic. As far as Mr. Lewis got, maybe a part of him couldn’t help but feel that he got there because there was a Mr. Martin to show who he wasn’t — and, in fact, couldn’t be. Maybe Mr. Lewis’s aspiration to Mr. Martin’s genteel gentility — while at the same time realizing and fearing that the very reason people adored him was because of his shtick — was part of the tension that eventually broke up the team. Not that there weren’t many other reasons, and the insecurity certainly flowed both ways, but this aspect wasn’t particularly subtle. It’s certainly significant, for example, that one of Mr. Lewis’s post-Martin and Lewis efforts ventured directly into Mr. Martin’s territory, recording an album of standards called “Jerry Lewis Just Sings.” But this tension took on a much wider significance when, a few years later, Mr. Lewis re-addressed his yearnings in his comedic masterpiece, a movie that, without a single rabbi anywhere, has almost as much to say about American Jewish life — and particularly the hopes for and anxieties about fitting in and making it — than any other movie of the period. “The Nutty Professor,” is a 1963 comedy about a nebbishy, klutzy college professor named Julius Kelp, who, taking a page from “Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde,” drinks a serum he concocts in order to turn into somebody else. But while Stevenson’s Victorian doctor wants to allow his less socially accepted urges free rein, Mr. Lewis’s comical zhlub — a kind of Mad magazine parody come to life — turns into a cool nightclub singer, Buddy Love. Whether Buddy Love was based on Mr. Martin or not (opinion is divided: Mr. Lewis said he wasn’t, and almost everyone else believed he was), he was certainly the apotheosis of a kind of American Jewish yearning: the man women wanted; the man men wanted to be. Julius Kelp (note that weedy early 20th century Jewish name) was who Jews feared everyone thought they were. After the movie came out, Mr. Lewis admitted he was surprised at that one aspect of its success. He had written Buddy Love as a bad guy, as a way to help Kelp (and audiences) learn that you have to like yourself to have others like you. The movie ends with the love interest confessing she preferred the nutty genius to the sexy crooner. But audiences preferred Love, in a big way. Mr. Lewis’s bemusement about that phenomenon spoke to an essential American Jewish truth of the period, wrought truer in his film than perhaps he knew: Did a collectively imagined American dream appeal more strongly than your personal history? Can you really have both, without a magic potion, or split personality? And if so, which one would you rather give up? It’s a tension that American Jews, and not just American Jews, have been thinking about for a long time. And few explored it as sensitively — or humorously — as Mr. Lewis.