Despite the horrific timing of his remarks, President Trump’s defense of Confederate statues last week revealed a viewpoint that’s widely held in this country — and not just by neo-Nazis or white supremacists. Plenty of Americans find themselves conflicted about recent efforts to remove monuments to the Confederacy, be they statues or the names of buildings, highways or schools. This is especially true at my (beloved) alma mater. I’m a 2017 graduate of Washington and Lee University, which is named for George Washington, an early benefactor, and Robert E. Lee, who served as college president from 1865 until his death in 1870. Over the past several years, some students have begun to advocate that the university do more to distance itself from our second namesake, while others have come to Lee’s rescue with increasing vigor. As one peer wrote in a conservative campus publication called The Spectator, “Robert E. Lee evinced an unusual and relative show of honor and integrity that should not be slandered by his role in the Civil War.” I have many friends who share this opinion. Although they would never associate with white supremacists or attend alt-right rallies, they get upset at any suggestion that Washington and Lee change how it honors Lee’s legacy on campus. It’s true that the retired Confederate general played an important role in our university’s history. But if the Washington and Lee community is not more willing to critically evaluate one of our patron saints — and modify how we celebrate him — we only legitimize the “causes” of white supremacists who latch onto statues of men like Lee because they symbolize the subjugation of black people. The school wasn’t even always called Washington and Lee. Founded in 1749 as Augusta Academy, it was subsequently renamed Liberty Hall in 1776 and Liberty Hall Academy in 1782. It became Washington Academy in 1796, after George Washington donated some $20,000 worth of James River Canal stock to the institution, effectively saving it from financial ruin. After the Civil War, Robert E. Lee was recruited to become college president of what was by then called Washington College, a post he accepted with reservations, worried that he “might draw upon the college a feeling of hostility.” When he died in 1870, trustees voted to change the name of the school to Washington and Lee University. In his short tenure, Lee nearly reinvented the place. He championed the sciences, joined the Lexington Law School to the college, introduced what would become our hallmark honor system and established some of America’s first collegiate journalism and business classes, and he turned down more profitable jobs to do so. He worked to ensure that Northern and Southern students studied together and pledged to devote his “remaining energies to training young men to do their duty in life.” But this is the same Lee who led the Confederate army against the Union to preserve the status quo of slavery in our nation’s bloodiest war. Lee is often defended as a product of his time, but at least one other Virginian, George Henry Thomas, became a notable Union general. Later, as a college president, Lee was also mostly unwilling to discipline students involved in attempted lynchings and kidnappings of black women who lived nearby. Touring our campus, though, you wouldn’t even guess that Lee was on the losing side of the Civil War. Portraits of the man are prominently displayed, and three university buildings bear his name. One is the president’s house, in which Lee died. The second, Lee-Jackson House, is home to the office of the dean of the college and is also named for Stonewall Jackson, Lee’s military colleague in the Confederacy. The third building is Lee Chapel, which was commissioned by the retired general but not named for him until after his death. Inside this campus landmark, where an altar might have been built, rests a gigantic, recumbent, marble statue of Lee, wearing Confederate battle gear and resting on a camp bed. (Lee is buried with his family in a mausoleum beneath the chapel.) This year the Washington and Lee admissions department instructed tour guides to avoid showing the Lee Chapel interior to prospective students and families. There were a number of logistical reasons for this change: to showcase newer buildings and minimize the amount of time groups spent sitting inside the chapel, rather than actually touring the campus. But many people, including myself, also supported the policy because of that life-size statue, which makes Lee look like some sort of religious figure. It suggests a degree of lionization that isn’t associated with most college presidents, let alone the famously treasonous. To a number of other students and alumni, however, the administration seemed to be capitulating to political correctness. Members of the student executive committee’s subcommittee on traditions — yes, that’s a thing at Washington and Lee — voiced discontent. An op-ed in The Spectator  argued that the new policy be “reversed as soon as possible,” largely because “Lee Chapel is the centerpiece of our university’s historical heritage, and its importance reaches into all our lives as participants in this university community.” One comment on the article urged the college to keep Lee Chapel on the tour in order “to talk openly and candidly about history, not hide it.” And therein lies the rub. Stand-alone statues and portraits of Confederate leaders, devoid of any historical information except for perhaps a plaque, don’t present a candid or nuanced account of history. They signal that these men are heroic and worthy of honor. Period. Until 2014, my sophomore year, when a group of African-American students made several demands to improve the campus environment for people of color, the recumbent statue of Lee was also flanked by reproductions of the Confederate battle flag. Many students and alumni argued that the flags should remain in the chapel, even though, after the Civil War, Lee himself resisted memorials to the Confederate cause or displays of its flag. I was a tour guide then. One afternoon while I was showing a group around campus, a mother stopped me midsentence to ask why an assembly of men dressed in gray and wielding Confederate flags was protesting in front of the chapel. I tried stalling for a few moments. What were we supposed to tell people again? Oh yes: “This is not typical at Washington and Lee. The protesters should be gone for good soon.” But to my surprise, the mother on my tour praised them “for just celebrating their heritage.” An African-American family just happened to be with us. After that comment, they didn’t ask any more questions about the school. They left right after the tour. This scenario should be of much deeper concern to the campus community than whether Confederate battle flags fly in the chapel. Those who feel strongly about commemorating certain positive aspects of Confederate leaders must therefore be specific about how they present these men, and they can’t rely on the platitudes that white supremacists deploy. Southern secession was inextricably tied to upholding slavery, and postwar Confederate imagery surged in negative response to the 20th century’s civil rights movement. We all have the duty to reject the narratives about heritage that have been popularized by those who strive to make Confederate pride more palatable. I am not proposing that we scrub the campus of any mention of Lee. A new name for the college might well be appropriate — especially since we could revert to one of several former names — but the best defense against taking such drastic action is to be vigilantly honest about Lee’s blemished legacy. History should be better contextualized on campus, and we should eschew any hagiographic imagery. That the chapel itself is named for Lee, who oversaw its construction, makes sense. But the life-size statue of the general, as well as portraits of him featuring Confederate iconography, should be moved to the Lee Chapel Museum. The museum itself, which now makes scant reference to Lee’s Civil War days, must also critically engage with the offenses of a man who is the hero of plenty of children’s books sold in the gift shop. This is not an argument to vilify all flawed historical figures. I’ve heard some of my peers make the same “slippery slope” argument as President Trump did last week, when he tweeted, “Can’t change history, but you can learn from it. Robert E Lee, Stonewall Jackson — who’s next, Washington, Jefferson? So foolish!” Yes, some critiques of Lee apply to Washington and Jefferson too — namely that all were slaveholders. But when we decide which famous Americans to memorialize, we should take their contributions to society into account. The founding fathers established the world’s oldest, still-active Constitution, and they made equality the guiding vision of our country, however tragically limited it was when the Constitution was written. Robert E. Lee fought against this ideal. It’s not hard to distinguish those who provided the intellectual framework for American rights from those who did everything they could to rend it apart. It’s easy to condemn the neo-Nazis and fanatics who rally around statues, waving Confederate flags and banners with swastikas. Still, there remain many nice, oftentimes well-meaning — though privileged — people in our country who imbue these radicals’ hatred with a tinge of credibility. Such individuals, and I have unwittingly been one, do not speak in explicitly racist or militaristic terms about attempts to revisit the past or how to honor it. Yet they quietly breathe life into the South’s racist, Lost Cause ideology by holding up Robert E. Lee as a paragon of heritage or virtue.