Nashville — My sister and nephew drove up here from Birmingham, Ala., on Sunday, the day before the eclipse, and out of pure curiosity we went downtown. The place was crawling with tourists. The Great American Eclipse website had estimated that as many as 7.4 million Americans would be traveling somewhere to witness the event, and this is the largest city in the path of totality. It seemed like a lot of them were already here. At Pride and Glory Tattoo on Second Avenue, I found two customers getting the finishing touches on eclipse-themed tattoos that the shop hadn’t exactly prepared for. Ethan Lynn, the guy behind the counter, said: “An eclipse is not really a big deal in tattoo world. At all.” Unfazed, the artist made something up on the spot. His customers, Rosa Ramos and Joe Moody, had come down from Allentown, Pa., to see the eclipse and get matching eclipse tattoos. South Carolina was about the same distance away from their home, Mr. Moody pointed out. Why Nashville, then? “Live music,” Ms. Ramos said. Farther up Second, Tiny Webster (“like the dictionary”) sat on his stool outside the George Jones museum and bar, where he is head of security. “A lot of people are here for the eclipse because it’s the perfect spot,” he said. He was scheduled to work on Monday and wasn’t sure he’d have a chance to see the eclipse himself. “I don’t know. I may be right here, or I may be upstairs,” he said. “I want people to enjoy themselves. That’s what Nashville’s about: enjoying yourself. It makes me happy when people are happy.” Over at the Goo-Goo Shop on the Third Ave, on the other side of Broadway, Peter Komara was here from Maryland with his family for more than the iconic Nashville candy. The shop was giving away a pair of eclipse glasses for every $10 purchase. Given the national recall of eclipse glasses, the Komaras were happy to buy enough Goo-Goo Clusters to score three pairs of them. “This is a fun city,” Mr. Komara said. Yes, this was fun, but we still had the actual eclipse coming. What should we do? My husband had to work, but my office — like most of the city — was closed for the day. Part of me wanted to go to the mayor’s party at the local AAA baseball stadium because the Grammy-winning Nashville Symphony would be giving a free concert there. Part of me wanted to sit on the grounds of the Tennessee state capitol, which is perched on the highest hill in the city, and watch the shadow of the moon envelope all the bachelorettes partying downtown. A very large part of me wanted to head out to the R.V. gathering at Loretta Lynn’s ranch in Hurricane Mills, but then I realized Loretta wouldn’t be there, and also I don’t own an R.V. I could go to the zoo for an eclipse “Animal Observation Experience” or sign up for the Vampire Eclipse Bar Crawl or take in the event from the deck of the General Jackson riverboat or shell out $200 to stand on the roof of the George Jones museum and enjoy the spectacle under the protection of Tiny Webster. But the more people we met who’d come to Nashville for a fun weekend of honkytonkin’ capped off by a solar eclipse, the closer to home my own plans became. I didn’t want to see the total eclipse with drunk bridesmaids or zoo animals. God knows I didn’t want to see the total eclipse with members of the Tennessee General Assembly. I wanted to see this utterly ordinary but exceedingly rare phenomenon in the company of blue jays and chipmunks. I wanted to see fractured light glinting on all the intricate webs the micrathena spiders had strung across footpaths in the night. I wanted to see sun parings wink through the wild rose of Sharon flowers — an effect of the partial eclipse that turns a forest into a great pinhole camera, projecting images of the waning sun onto the ground and leaving little moon-shaped holes in all the shadows. My sister wanted to hit the road as quickly as possible to avoid the murderous post-eclipse traffic, so I went alone on Monday to Percy Warner Park, half of a contiguous pair of Nashville parks that make up more than 3,000 acres of forest and meadow. I found the field at the trailhead already ringed by people speculating about exactly when each known eclipse effect would take place. When would the color of the sky deepen? When would the air begin to shimmer, as though lighted by some other planet’s sun? When would the birds fly into the trees to roost? Then there was my own unvoiced question: When it’s all over, will I know what I saw from what I had merely been primed to see by more than a month of the media’s eclipse saturation? I still don’t know. I know only that something ineffable, something beyond the reach of my own language, happened in the everyday sky. The air turned blue and then silver. A dog barked. A bird whose song I don’t know began to sing, then fell silent. The air cooled, and suddenly Venus was gleaming in the midnight-blue pitch of the sky. The people under the trees at the edges of the meadow had moved into the darkness of the open field. By the time I looked down again, they had somehow gathered a sheen that made them all look like angels. And in the center of it all was a ring of fire in the sky, a thin sliver of flame that burned as brightly as the sun but was nothing at all like the sun. It was nothing at all like anything I have ever seen, but I knew it anyway because it was exactly like something I have heard many times. In Nashville, you can hear the song wafting from the open door of any honky-tonk on Lower Broad: Johnny Cash singing about love, about desire. Like desire, it burned, burned, burned, and it made me feel puny and insignificant but also ablaze with life. The ancients believed an eclipse would bring the end of world, but the end of the world did not come for me. I didn’t wait for the sun to wax full again before heading home. I had to get out of there without talking to any of my fellow mortals, without hearing any of their earthly concerns. I had to leave while the air was still full silver. And all the way home tiny crescents bespeckled the road, a path of fractured light that led me back to my own place in the world, right to my very door.