The first time I met Donald Trump, he told me he wanted to be like Jerry Lewis. This goes back to the early 1980s. I was working on my first job in New York, as a reporter for United Press International. It was a time when real estate stories were very hot, and I was dispatched to interview some of the local big names. First came an elderly and cranky Manhattan legend named Harry Helmsley. In my extreme innocence, I asked him if he had ever thought about using his development genius to build housing for the poor. “Why the hell would I do that?” he retorted. It was all downhill from there. Nevertheless, my editors sent me out again, this time to talk to Trump. He was then the new boy from Queens who’d renovated and glitzified a fading midtown hotel. I asked him exactly the same question. Slight pause. Then Trump announced, out of nowhere, that he had always wanted a disease. “Beg pardon?” I believe I replied. Trump said that he wanted a sickness of his own that everybody would know he was trying to cure, the way Jerry Lewis had muscular dystrophy. He ran through the list of possibilities. The only one I recall involved kidneys, which he thought were important but not really the kind of image he was going for. “He wants to buy a disease,” I told my editors. They ran my story, which was no more popular than the Harry Helmsley one. Our clients, it appeared, were not all that interested in the news that Manhattan luxury real estate developers were egomaniacal. Today, I have two thoughts about that encounter with the man who became … wow, president of the United States. One was that while the young Donald had no interest whatsoever at working for the poor, he knew enough to come up with an alternative. The second was that he never followed through. Wrapping yourself around a medical project is exactly the sort of thing conservative rich people like to do. It’s never controversial — everybody is in favor of less sickness and death. But Trump’s charitable history suggests that he never enjoyed any part of giving away money except the very first stage when you announce you’ve got a foundation. There were never any Donald’s Kids. End of my story.