Last year, at age 21, I was far from my native Bhutan in Singapore studying film and searching for a topic for my thesis documentary before graduating. I scoured the city and encountered an article about a photo studio in the city’s sprawling Little India neighborhood that catered to the thousands of migrant workers in Singapore, mostly young men from India and Bangladesh who form the low-paid backbone of the city’s work force. Remarkably, the studio boasted that it had a 100 percent success rate for helping its clients find brides, often from the suitors’ home countries, simply by taking flattering portraits (the sons’ parents either use the photos to find a bride themselves or hire a matchmaking service). It seemed like an old-fashioned dating app, a manual Tinder. I was intrigued and went across town to find the photo studio. It turned out to be a quirky little shop full of pictures featuring Photoshopped babies on flowers — its message was not subtle. But even more fascinating were its impressive walls and ceilings, which were covered with hundreds of portraits of smiling men. Each photo represented a client who had sought out the studio for assistance in his search for a wife, as he sought to put his best face forward. The number of portraits reinforced for me just how critical this studio was in so many people’s lives. So I struck up a conversation with the owners, Sajeev and Seeja, who like many of their clients are of South Indian descent, and I inadvertently formed a friendship with them as I learned more about their business. Sajeev is a second-generation Singaporean who always had a passion for photography. I learned that their marriage was arranged quite like their own clients and they are happily married. But even more than the studio and its proprietors, I realized I was fascinated by the potential grooms and wanted to learn more about how they felt about the process. In meeting the men featured in this film and following them on their search for a wife, I found that despite the differences between our cultures and traditions and how we might approach love and finding a life partner, we shared similarities in terms of the yearning to find love and comfort. Just like them, I was a foreigner living in a different land, and I could understand the alienating effect of living away from home. To witness the vulnerable and honest journey of the film’s eventual protagonist, Patha, was an insight into raw human emotions. (It’s a journey that continues: A year after I finished this film, Patha finally found a wife through this service — but it remains long distance as she studies for her master’s in microbiology in India and he continues to work as a truck driver in Singapore.) For me, I was surprised to see many of my own experiences and emotions reflected in his. He helped me realize that people from opposite sides of the globe can be more alike than I would have ever imagined.