Louise Linton, the wife of Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, had her 15 minutes of infamy today when she posted a photo on Instagram of herself exiting a military jet. The plane was stamped with the name of our country. Ms. Linton’s slim figure was emblazoned with brand names she tagged. Sunglasses: Tom Ford. Shoes: Valentino. Her scarf was, of course, Hermès. The comparisons to Marie Antoinette rolled right in. “Glad we could pay for your little getaway. #deplorable,” commented Jenni Miller, a Democrat from Portland, Ore. Rather than ignoring the comment, Ms. Linton opted for a retort one would expect from a grade-school bully: “Aw!!! Did you think this was a personal trip?! Adorable!” she asked. “Have you given more to the economy than me and my husband? Either as an individual earner in taxes OR in self sacrifice to your country?” Linton continued: “I’m pretty sure we paid more taxes toward our day ‘trip’ than you did.” Keeping it classy, she added, “You’re adorably out of touch.” It’s Ms. Linton who’s out of touch. And this isn’t the first time she has made headlines for being utterly tone-deaf. Ms. Linton, a 36-year-old native of Scotland, gained attention for her memoir about the time she spent in Zambia when she was 18. Title: “In Congo’s Shadow: One Girl’s Perilous Journey to the Heart of Africa.” As a native Zimbabwean, I know “In Congo’s Shadow” should offend me. And it does. But it’s also so over the top that I can’t help finding it hilarious. “I soon learned that Africa is rife with hidden danger,” she wrote. “I witnessed random acts of violence, contracted malaria and had close encounters with lions, elephants, crocodiles and snakes. As monsoon season came and went, the Hutu-Tutsi conflict in neighboring Congo began to escalate and then spill over into Zambia with repercussions all along the lake.” Zambia doesn’t have a monsoon season. And the Hutu-Tutsi conflict happened in Rwanda. Later, in a line that rivals the Kendall Jenner Pepsi ad, Ms. Linton wrote: “Whenever that happens, though, I try to remember a smiling gaptoothed child with H.I.V whose greatest joy was to sit on my lap and drink from a bottle of Coca-Cola.” At one point, she actually called herself “angel-haired.” I could go on. When the self-published book raced around the Web last year, Ms. Linton apologized, hid her social media accounts and pulled the book, and Africans around the world rebuked her #LintonLies. Apparently that wasn’t enough to teach her to avoid blitzing the world with her deeply misguided, angel-haired views. When Ms. Linton’s done with her latest apology tour, maybe she’ll consider visiting Zambia again. I’d like to show her the country beyond starving orphans and disease, the country where my grandmother was born and still lives. In her home in Chongwe, along with her daughters, she often weaves traditional baskets and makes gorgeous dresses out of bright cottons. She cooks delicious isitshwala, a kind of thick polenta, which I love to eat with stewed chicken. I know it’s not Jean-Georges, but perhaps Ms. Linton would enjoy it nonetheless.