 This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. The guest writer of today’s newsletter is Bari Weiss, an editor and writer in the Opinion section. Yesterday, some 15 minutes before the solar eclipse began in midtown Manhattan, I learned that all that stood between me and blindness was a pair of especially dark and especially flimsy 3-D movie glasses. Yes, I realize everyone else knew this. Yes, I realize that if I had more closely read Frank Bruni’s column on the entrepreneurial bonanza of the eclipse, I would have known this. I blame Trump. I believe the Earth is warming. I believe that babies should be vaccinated pretty much as soon as they exit the womb. But I have a very, very hard time believing that these specs, which apparently could be sold by any fifth-grader capable of typing “ISO 12312-2” onto cardboard, could protect a nation of millions from burning out their retinas. Unlike our president, who — surprise! — looked directly at the sun without glasses, I donned a pair borrowed from a generous colleague, and joined the crowd gathered on the corner of 40th St. and Eighth Avenue. The neon-orange thumbnail in the sky was breathtaking. It was rivaled in its splendor by the sight of adults in midtown Manhattan who’d taken the time to create pinhole projectors out of old cereal boxes and paper plates. In this year of national alienation, the collective excitement about the eclipse has been a welcome respite. I was completely charmed by this piece in our science section, which highlighted some of the most enthusiastic umbraphiles in the country. I also loved this Wall Street Journal review of a new book about the total eclipse of July 29, 1878, during which Thomas Edison, Maria Mitchell and other notable scientists went to the “still-wild West” to watch the drama unfold in the sky. By sundown on Monday, though, attention shifted to more earthly matters, when the president gave what was billed as a major speech about the war in Afghanistan. “Conditions on the ground, not arbitrary timetables, will guide our strategy from now on,” he said. “America’s enemies must never know our plans or believe they can wait us out. I will not say when we are going to attack, but attack we will.” As for troop levels, Mr. Trump also managed to keep that a secret. Various pundits and reporters praised Mr. Trump’s speech as “presidential,” though The Atlantic’s James Fallows made the case that its normality — the fact that “any mainstream politician over the past 15 years” could have given the same address — wasn’t something to cheer. Times White House correspondent Maggie Haberman tweeted: “POTUS gave his best speech as POTUS. He’s given extremely few of these types of speeches. And he has a campaign rally tomorrow. Soooo...” It’s a pretty safe bet that the Trump we’ll get today in Arizona won’t be the one we saw on national television last night. We’ll be watching closely. In The Times. Jon Meacham makes the strong case for why Robert E. Lee statues should go, but those of George Washington and Thomas Jefferson should stay. Jeremy Dauber argues that Jerry Lewis, who died Sunday at 91, was the quintessential postwar American Jew. And Emma Ketteringham writes about how authorities in the Bronx hold poor parents of color to a standard that white parents in more affluent areas are not expected to meet. David Leonhardt, the regular author of this newsletter, will return Aug. 28.