An old friend just died, and it kicked me in the gut. My friend was The Village Voice. And I am merely one among a legion of now stricken devotees. There’s something quintessentially New York about The Voice’s demise. Because you can’t truly claim to be a New Yorker until you’ve had a moment like this, when you walk by a storefront and blink in sudden disorientation: “Wait, didn’t such and such used to be right here?” Yes, it did. Until the day it vanished, because this is a city of eternal sunrise and sunset, a constant churn of renewal. In my early 20s I probably crawled over every square inch of Lower Manhattan between 14th and Houston. Wild nights dancing at the Palladium, now dead and gone. Weekends plowing through the CD-laden aisles at Tower Records. Dead and gone. And days working in the red-brick confines of 36 Cooper Square, home of The Village Voice, the New York alt-weekly that recently announced it would cease printing and publish only online. There was nothing like The Voice when it thrummed with life. My relationship began in the early 1990s as a college student. Back then The Voice had the best classified and listings sections in the world. It might seem a quaint notion today, but those sections were a lifeline. The Voice answered a 20-something New Yorker’s most existential questions: where to work, where to live and what to do. But more than anything else, The Voice dared me to imagine life as a writer. I eagerly devoured every byline, but there were two in particular. Two black men. Nelson George and Greg Tate. There was a vast gulf between them as prose stylists. Nelson’s cool shadings contrasted with Greg’s manic poetry, like Ornette Coleman on LSD. But in that gulf was possibility. You could look like us and write about the people and things that emerged from a black milieu and, further, write about them with care, craft and love. I would accept that dare during the summer after my junior year, when I sat in front of the arts editor, Lisa Kennedy, interviewing for a writing fellowship. I’ll never forget what she said: “You have such a distinctive voice for a young writer.” Here I was, a kid with no reason to expect that one could carve out a life as a writer. Lisa’s words were my first professional affirmation and the first proof I could offer my mom that her son, after dropping out of school for a year to write, might not be insane after all. The Voice felt like the center of gravity for the artistic and intellectual forces raging about our city. I’d stumble from one cubicle to another, a baby in awe of giants, trying to not get stepped on. That newsroom was a literal manifestation of New York: every color, creed and orientation, in tumult and harmony. Wayne Barrett, Peter Noel, Michael Musto. Ann Powers, Joe Levy, Jeff Salamon, J. Hoberman. Jim Ledbetter, Colson Whitehead, Lisa Jones. Paul Miller, Hilton Als, Andy Hsiao, our dear departed Joe Wood, and so many more. And then there was Bob Christgau, legendary music guru and critic. I could never decide whether to be terrified or inspired by Bob. I had a reflexive urge to tiptoe past his desk, anxious about disturbing any genius work in formative stage. I think of Bob and Wayne Barrett as the twin prongs of what made The Voice sizzle in its prime — our arts coverage, particularly music, and our political lens, especially the one fixed on City Hall. Music critics at The Voice were allowed to write at a length and depth that, even in that heyday of print, was unusual. I still charm younger writers with the tale of how I spent an entire summer studying “Do You Want More?!!!??!,” the Roots’ first major-label album, before finally writing a lengthy essay for The Voice, a thing unimaginable in today’s instant-response world of arts criticism. Then there was Wayne, who this year preceded his beloved Voice on the journey to the hereafter. When I began my tenure at 36 Cooper Square, Rudy Giuliani was still in the early days of his mayoralty, and Wayne would go after City Hall with a crusader’s doggedness that left me both in awe and certain that some rough-and-tumble off-duty police officers were bound to show up at the office at any moment. That sense of the righteous fight was baked into the DNA of the paper. Part of it came from the fact that The Voice was a union shop, my first experience with such a thing. There was a fierceness about rights and representation that permeated the place. That attitude flowed into, and back from, the very pages of the paper. We were a glorious collection of people whom society sought to marginalize. Beautiful sinners, tainted saints. And The Voice never let us forget that point of view or the urgency it demanded. That urgency led me to do research for Doug Simmons on congressional hearings on rap, report on President Bill Clinton’s Haiti intervention, write essays on Nas’s and Biggie’s first albums and dash down to the Million Man March in Washington to write and report for a cover package. The exhilaration of that work was matched only by how you felt when you’d hold The Voice in your hands and marvel at its sheer physicality. The weight. The thickness. The knowledge that this was a narrative adventure that required wading through. Then you’d ride the train and watch your fellow New Yorkers do the same thing, clinging to the paper as if it was a totem of Big Apple membership. You’d feel the thrill of seeing someone digest your work, surpassed only by the sight of your name on the cover. You’d feel like you mattered as a writer and thinker, validated by those who mattered most, the fellow citizenry of your great city. The Voice was far more than a friend. It was home. It was family. I learned to write there. I learned to edit. I learned more about these five boroughs we call home. I learned that Greg Tate wasn’t just some intimidating warlock of the pen when he’d take a wide-eyed kid like me out for lunch every now and then. In all these years I don’t believe that I’ve ever said thank you to him and Nelson for lighting the path. And I know I haven’t acknowledged my dear Voice for the paramount lesson: You can turn wild imaginations into reality if you dare. I’ll always thank The Voice for that. And I’ll always love that collection of oddballs at 36 Cooper Square and the weekly testament we gave to our city.