Louise Linton, wife of Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, raised ire this week with an Instagram post depicting herself descending the steps of a government jet accompanied by the caption, “Great #daytrip to #Kentucky! #nicest #people #rolandmouret pants, #hermesscarf, #tomford sunnies, and #valentinorockstudheels #valentino #usa.” In the photos, the 36-year-old Scottish actress, who grew up in a castle and married Mr. Mnuchin, a multimillionaire, earlier this year, is clad in what appeared to be approximately $16,000 of luxurious cream wool crepe designer clothing and opulent accessories, which she dutifully tagged for any Real Americans currently in the market for thousand-dollar white pants. Several Instagram commenters pointed out that, in a country where an estimated 43 million people live below the poverty line and 6.4 million children live with food insecurity, flaunting ostentatious wealth at least partially supported by taxpayer money goes beyond tackiness and approaches sadism. One user wrote: “Glad we could pay for your little getaway. #deplorable.” Added another: “Please don’t tag your Hermes scarf. Distasteful.” In response, Ms. Linton posted a vertiginous wall of text suggesting that rich people are nobler and more self-sacrificing than poor people because they pay a lot of taxes, the tone implying that perhaps the serfs of Instagram would appreciate her scarf more if they weren’t so dung-caked. When Ms. Linton’s response, which contained the lines “Aw” and “Your life looks cute,” didn’t garner the ecstatic genuflection of the common people as expected, she made her account private. She later apologized, calling the post and her response “inappropriate and highly insensitive.” This, of course, is one of the classic social media bungles! Who hasn’t inadvertently posted an innocent outfit of the day that comes across as more stuck up than aspirational? Who can keep all this millennial etiquette straight when your Borzoi just spilled emeralds all over your laptop? Well, great news for busy public-service-minded citizens on the go: We’ve compiled an easy guide to help you show off your #shoegoals without implying that you’re #abetting a #violent #racist #kleptocracy. Just have your calligrapher transcribe it and you’re ready to ’Gram! DO: Share your good fortune! True friends take joy in one another’s successes, and the worldwide web is a great place to tell your fans and loved ones about your well-deserved windfalls and actualized dreams. DON’T: Lay it on too thick. Instead of a florid tableaux in which you look like Khaleesi stooping to scatter millet for the teeming indigents of Slaver’s Bay to snarl and grub over, try a cute Starbucks selfie that shows off your new hat. Less is more. #hatgoals DO: Express appreciation for the gifts the universe has given you. Less attitude, more gratitude. DON’T: Express entitlement to United States government funds for decadent pleasure tours you, with your immense wealth, could easily afford yourself because America’s delusional obsession with rugged individualism deters voters from pushing for an overhaul of the tax code that might mitigate our staggering income disparity! Instead, maybe say “#blessed,” with a picture of your cold-pressed juice. DO: Build your personal brand. DON’T: Build your personal brand around conspicuous consumption in a cultural moment when the political administration that employs your husband and supposedly represents the interests of the struggling Everyman is actively trying to distance itself from a hostile foreign oligarchy. DO: Use hashtags so that ’Grammers with similar interests can find your latest snaps. For instance, the hashtag #humble helps you connect with other users who like things that are #humble! Try it out! DON’T: Use hashtags to let ’Grammers know that your handbag costs more than they pay in rent in a year, particularly if you’re married to the cabinet official who could help make homeownership and true, substantive, generational financial stability accessible for the working class, but probably won’t! Instead, try something more relatable, like #selfcare under a picture of you standing next to a horse. (Best not to mention that you own the horse and also the copyright to the concept of horses.) DO: Accept criticism with a smile and an open mind. Not everyone is going to “get” you, and that’s O.K. Every callout is an opportunity to either improve yourself or model grace under fire. We are all just students in this university called life. DON’T: Get defensive and telegraph the fact that you feel unmitigated disdain toward those who weren’t fortunate enough to be born into money, marry into more money, then have their moneyed partner luck into a cushy six-figure government job with perks such as private jets and trips to #Kentucky. Before you tell a stranger that her complaint about the nation falling into the hands of cartoon rich people who can’t even forcefully denounce the Confederacy is really just the jealous squalling of a loser with a bad life, stop and think: Is this public? Will people see this? Am I a member of a humane, collective society or a capsule of pure consciousness floating in the void? Next, force your butler to eat your iPhone. DO: Explore filters, which can hide imperfections and make sunsets pop! DON’T: Reveal your own deeply flawed filter on the world.