You’re walking down the street and there’s a man trailing uncomfortably close behind you. A co-worker stands a little too intimately in your personal space. There’s a stranger breathing down your neck on the subway. Each time, you do a quick mental arithmetic: Do I ignore it? Move away quickly, but without causing a scene? Say something? Yell? “This is not O.K., I thought,” Hillary Clinton writes in her forthcoming memoir, “What Happened,” in a passage to which too many women can relate. “It was the second presidential debate, and Donald Trump was looming behind me. Two days before, the world heard him brag about groping women. Now we were on a small stage and no matter where I walked, he followed me closely, staring at me, making faces. It was incredibly uncomfortable. He was literally breathing down my neck. My skin crawled.” In excerpts from the book, which were released by “Morning Joe” on Wednesday, Mrs. Clinton revealed that in that moment, she asked herself: What do you do? “Do you stay calm, keep smiling and carry on as if he weren’t repeatedly invading your space?” she writes. “Or do you turn, look him in the eye, and say loudly and clearly: ‘Back up, you creep, get away from me! I know you love to intimidate women, but you can’t intimidate me, so back up.’ ” Mrs. Clinton did what most women do when they face harassment or intimidation: She ignored it. But now she’s stewing in the what-if: “I chose option A. I kept my cool, aided by a lifetime of difficult men trying to throw me off. I did, however, grip the microphone extra hard. I wonder, though, whether I should have chosen option B. It certainly would have been better TV. Maybe I have overlearned the lesson of staying calm, biting my tongue, digging my fingernails into a clenched fist, smiling all the while, determined to present a composed face to the world.” This second-guessing of oneself and playing-out of alternate narratives in one’s own head is a dominant soundtrack of women’s lives. It’s also the white noise behind every case, public or privately discussed, of sexual harassment, abuse and rape. When women complain about being harassed on the street, we are admonished to simply talk back to our harassers. When we are beaten up or killed for talking back, people wonder why we provoked our assailants. When we are harassed or assaulted by someone in the public eye, we are presumed to be merely seeking publicity if we come forward. If we decide to speak out only when other women have done so first, then we must be lying, because why didn’t we mention this earlier? Whatever we choose as option A, there is always a chorus, inside our own minds and outside of it, contending it would have been better if we had just gone with option B. So would it? If Mrs. Clinton had spun around and called Mr. Trump a creep, would she have effectively stopped his onstage harassment? Mr. Trump is more nakedly obsessed with dominance and “winning” than any politician in living memory. And Mrs. Clinton, who seemed poised to become the first female president, threatened not only his ascendancy but also a 200-year-old gender order. Researchers have found that sexual harassment isn’t about attraction; it’s about gender and power. According to a 2012 study, workplace harassment “can serve as an ‘equalizer’ against women in power, motivated more by control and domination than by sexual desire.” Street harassment isn’t all that different. A survey focused on the Middle East and North Africa found that men harass women in public “to put them in their place,” Gary Barker one of the report’s authors, told NPR. “They feel like the world owes them.” Mr. Trump sells this same sentiment — you’re owed, you haven’t gotten your due — to his white male base. Onstage at that debate, Mr. Trump responded like a lot of men do when they feel their rightful place of authority is threatened, and an enormous number of male voters (and some female voters) went right along with him. Had Mrs. Clinton responded forcefully during that debate, she would most likely have faced the same penalties other women do when they speak up at work: being seen as unpleasant, aggressive and less competent. Mrs. Clinton already faced a likability problem, which many commentators insisted had nothing to do with gender — she just wasn’t charismatic, she didn’t smile enough, listening to her talk felt like hearing your wife yell at you to do the dishes. Mr. Trump may have reveled in condescending, if uncreative, name-calling during his campaign (“Crooked Hillary,” “Little Marco”), but the rules were different for Mrs. Clinton. Her biggest campaign gaffe was calling a subset of Trump supporters — those motivated by bigotry — “deplorables,” a move the Republican Party quickly exploited. Putting aside the fact that Mrs. Clinton was right (a subset of Trump supporters were in fact motivated by racism, and he retains strong support from his base even after equivocating on neo-Nazi violence in Charlottesville), any anger or defensiveness on her part was cast as yelling, shouting and shrill. Do we really think Mrs. Clinton’s calling Mr. Trump a creep would have been met more positively? In the same debate where Mr. Trump lurked and glowered behind Mrs. Clinton, he also interrupted her repeatedly, in another gendered dynamic — men interrupt women, even their own colleagues, more than women interrupt men, but it’s women who are stereotyped as being too chatty. When Mrs. Clinton protested Mr. Trump’s outbursts, he didn’t apologize or back down; instead, he barked, “Because you had nothing to say.” Campaigns against public and professional harassment have increasingly focused on bystander intervention — that is, encouraging witnesses to harassment to step in. The moderators of the debate, Martha Raddatz and Anderson Cooper, admonished Mr. Trump several times to let Mrs. Clinton speak. Neither of them, though, instructed him to physically back off. And who can blame them? It would have been uncomfortable, and they would have faced accusations of bias. They certainly haven’t publicly wondered, as Mrs. Clinton has, whether a different split-second choice could have changed the course of world history; they haven’t had to stand by while the public wonders for them. Nor should they. There’s no perfect way to intervene, and intervention often has costs. But for Mrs. Clinton, on that stage, that lack of intervention put her in the same position as so many women who are harassed in plain view of others who do nothing: all alone, second-guessing her own gut reaction. The unsatisfactory truth is that there’s no one perfect way to respond to harassment, menacing or the many smaller indignities and larger acts of aggression women endure. It’s comforting, in the way a little smug superiority can feel comforting when it tamps down any nagging inclination to consider our own accountability, to conclude that if only this one woman had behaved a little differently, we would have respected her more, or at least hated her less. Mrs. Clinton herself is now engaging in a particularly feminine (and particularly unpleasant) psychological turmoil — the hashing and rehashing of saying too little or saying too much, the spinning in one’s head that maybe you just are too little or you just are too much. And there’s the biting isolation of concluding it must be you who is terribly and irredeemably flawed, and the gut-punch that comes when others agree by demeaning or humiliating or threatening you — you, who individually and obviously does not belong here, whether “here” is on the presidential debate stage, in the corner office, or walking down the street in a new summer dress. No public figure in modern history has had her choices combed over with as much tick-picking meticulousness as Hillary Clinton, and the impending release of her latest book has already set off a new round of alternate histories and what-she-should-have-dones. What these correctives routinely fail to do is consider that the rest of us — media, voters, all of us who perpetuate norms around gender and power in a million subtle ways — have created an unnavigable landscape for female “firsts” generally, and for this one especially. While the news media was obsessing over emails and deplorables and scandals amounting to little more than innuendo, and while voters were shrugging that Mrs. Clinton just didn’t seem honest or relatable, a shameless misogynist was unabashedly and loudly firing up deep sexual and racial biases to catapult himself into the White House. He stalked a woman onstage while we all watched, and then he won the election. Now we expect her to be very sorry. Perhaps it’s not just Hillary Clinton who should be thinking about what she could have done differently.