On Monday evening, President Trump presented the latest “new” strategy for Afghanistan. But the only thing distinguishing his speech from past presidents’ remarks on the war in Afghanistan was his egregious use of the sacrifice of American service members to justify expanding the United States’ military commitment. Everything else was a repeat of what has become the standard operating procedure in Washington. What Mr. Trump’s speech actually did was shed light on the delusion that both Republican and Democratic officials and policy makers have operated under when it comes to the “war on terrorism.” For the last nearly 16 years, both parties have followed the same script, one based on false, costly assumptions that they refuse to challenge, crossing ethical boundaries without acknowledgment — all the while steadfastly refusing to learn from their mistakes and change course. There is little clarity about whom the United States is really at war with. Successive presidents have lumped disparate and often competing militants into simplified categories — “terrorists,” “violent extremists” or just “the enemy.” Mr. Trump’s latest iteration only deepened the confusion, warning that “20 U.S.-designated foreign terrorist organizations are active in Afghanistan and Pakistan.” He gave no clue which threaten Americans, or which America’s sons and daughters will fight against when they deploy (or, more often, redeploy). He also didn’t explain whether “victory” requires that all are defeated, or some, or just one. More broadly, the question of why, according to the State Department, the number of foreign terrorist groups has grown from 28 in 2002, to 44 in 2009, to 61 today has yet to be answered. While describing terrorist groups as a monolithic enemy, Mr. Trump also repeated a disproved belief shared by his predecessors: that terrorists require “safe havens” from which to conduct attacks, and therefore a reduction of American troops in combat zones will mean “you get hit again,” as Secretary of Defense Jim Mattis ominously warned in June. This is based on a fundamental — and inexcusable — misunderstanding about the Sept. 11 attacks, where the hijackers passed undetected through border checkpoints 33 times and enjoyed the safe havens of southern Maryland, San Diego and Oklahoma City. Mr. Trump has also followed past presidents by suggesting tough-sounding but implausible objectives. Mr. Bush pledged after Sept. 11 that the war on terror would end only when “every terrorist group of global reach has been found, stopped and defeated.” Mr. Trump claimed in his Inaugural Address that he would “eradicate” “radical Islamic terrorism” “completely from the face of the earth.” On Monday he said of “terrorists” — with no further specificity — that “we will defeat them, and we will defeat them handily.” Impossible promises of absolute victory lead presidents to grasp at chances to prematurely declare it. (The Bush administration, for example, claimed to have defeated the Taliban seven times from 2002 through 2005.) But in reality, military and counterterrorism officials have become wisely humble about what military power can achieve. Each president has consistently provided less transparency into military campaigns, and the Trump administration is set to be even worse. Toward the end of President Obama’s tenure, the Pentagon stopped releasing redacted investigations of major civilian casualty events, which are supposed to assign responsibility and recommend changes to lessen the probability of future civilian harm. Mr. Trump has so far accelerated this trend. After the president’s speech this week, Mr. Mattis would not say whether the number of new troops being deployed to Afghanistan would be made public. The Pentagon had already stopped updating data about troops in Iraq and Syria. Mr. Trump proudly proclaimed on Monday that “we are killing” terrorists. He has certainly tried. Every country the United States was bombing when he entered office has seen a sharp increase in the number of bombs dropped since Inauguration Day. But he is also killing unacceptably high numbers of civilians. In July, the United Nations revealed that in Afghanistan, there have been 70 percent more civilian casualties from American airstrikes in the first six months of 2017 than in the first half of 2016. In Iraq and Syria, at least 55 percent of all civilians killed by airstrikes since the air war began in August 2014 have died under Mr. Trump’s watch. When he vowed on Monday to “lift restrictions and expand authorities in the field,” he signaled that he endorses further harm to noncombatants. For its part, Congress has been alarmingly uninterested in commenting on this issue. This situation is not only immoral, it is counterproductive. Civilian casualties engender hatred for America, aid terrorist recruitment, and can radicalize potential lone-wolf terrorists residing in the United States. Rather than committing to block the pathways by which individuals adopt jihadist ideologies and become attracted to terrorist groups, policy makers of both parties try the same military policies over and over. Michael Morell, a former deputy director of the C.I.A., made an important admission: “For every 100 hours I spent in the Situation Room talking about how to deal with terrorists that already exist, maybe we spent 10 minutes talking about winning hearts and minds and deradicalization.” Nobody who studies counterterrorism policy would dispute this ratio. Some people may have hoped that Mr. Trump would be a transformative president when it came to fighting terrorism. They should be disappointed by Monday’s speech. He is merely going through all the motions that Washington expected of him.