It’s finally time to stop believing Republicans when they say they’re the party of balanced budgets. For eight years, Republicans warned the American public that we were hurtling toward certain fiscal doom. President Barack Obama’s oversight of the deficit was leaving “America’s future in the balance,” the Republican National Committee said in 2011. A year later, Senator Mitch McConnell said the federal debt was “the nation’s most serious long-term problem.” The debt was “killing our economy,” according to John Boehner in 2013, when he was the House speaker. President Trump, ostensibly the party’s standard-bearer, made it clear Thursday that he’s not very concerned about the national debt. In a series of tweets, he blamed Mr. McConnell and Speaker Paul D. Ryan for their handling of legislation to raise the debt ceiling, something Republicans argued for years had to be paired with spending cuts. “Could have been so easy — now a mess!” the president said. He’s right. It is a mess. But it’s not a mess Mr. McConnell and Mr. Ryan created this summer. It’s a mess Republicans laid the groundwork for over eight years of impeding a presidency and an economy because of their professed desire for fiscal restraint. In early 2016, the R.N.C. was still warning about “an unsustainable path toward crippling debt” after President Obama released his final budget. Mr. Trump got in on the game during the campaign, blaming Mr. Obama for leaving the country buried under a “mountain of debt.” But once in office, Mr. Trump put forward some broad outlines for a tax reform package, signaling that he wants a variety of large cuts, regardless of whether they increase the deficit. The Trump administration claimed that the proposed tax cuts would pay for themselves through faster economic growth. But past experience hasn’t borne that out, and it seems nearly impossible to find an economist who thinks it’s a viable theory. None of this takes into account Mr. Trump’s plans for spending. In his first budget, he increased funding for the military and his border wall while still promising to eliminate the deficit in 10 years. Once again, economic growth was offered as the magic elixir, though the Congressional Budget Office thinks otherwise. On cue, Mr. Ryan said President Trump’s budget was “right on target” even as he released a statement about it that criticized Mr. Obama’s “bloated budgets that never balance.” This about-face is not new for the party of financial responsibility. President Ronald Reagan promised to balance the federal budget and then, while in office, pushed through tax cuts and military spending that more than doubled the national debt. President George W. Bush promised to pay down the debt only to sign tax cuts and defense increases that doubled it. Republicans have a pattern of caring deeply about government finances while out of power and then forgetting those concerns when they’re in control. But this particular change of heart on federal debt follows years of using the fear of rising government costs to severely hamper Mr. Obama’s agenda. Republicans’ opposition to spending increases was part of how the 2009 stimulus package, passed to rescue a sinking economy, got whittled down from what would probably have been a more effective figure. Mr. Ryan called it a “wasteful spending spree” at the time, despite the fact that most analysis found that any debt added would eventually be fully offset by economic growth. Talk of a second round of stimulus was dead on arrival with Republicans. So a sluggish recovery was laid at Mr. Obama’s feet. The debt fear-mongering had other negative consequences. In 2013, government spending was put on a destructively tight leash by sequestration, automatic spending caps that were meant to spark a grand bargain on the budget. Instead, they reinforced Republican thinking that federal spending had to be reined in. Republicans argued against speedy emergency funding when floods or hurricanes hit various parts of the country, delaying much-needed help, and tried to push Mr. Obama into bargains on spending cuts. Democrats have turned the Republicans’ tactics against them, stating that Mr. Trump’s policies are bad because of what they will do to government finances. Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, called his tax plan “deficit-exploding.” It must be satisfying to turn Republicans’ own debt arguments back on them. But the honest objection Democrats should raise is not how things will be paid for, but whether they’re worth the cost. Their ability to make that argument will be tested in the upcoming debt-ceiling fight. The ceiling is merely a self-imposed cap on what the government can borrow, and it used to be regularly raised when borrowing needs bumped up against the limit. Yet with Mr. Obama in office, Republicans used deficit hysteria as an excuse when they refused to raise it without spending concessions. The debt ceiling will need to be increased as early as September, and Democrats have contemplated using it to make their own demands, including that Republicans’ tax reforms be deficit neutral. It’s a strategy that risks a government default over stubbornness under the pretense of fiscal prudence. Instead of digging in on the debt ceiling, the Democrats should call the Republicans’ bluff and demand the limit be abolished altogether. Republicans have shown their hand: They don’t care about the deficit or the debt. Democrats should point that out and push for an end to brinkmanship over the country’s finances. If the Republicans’ experience shows anything, it’s that voters haven’t punished them for reneging on promises. No one seems to really care about the deficit. It’s time to stop using it as a political tool.