A number of Liberty University alumni have vowed to return their diplomas, disgusted that the college president, Jerry Falwell Jr., praised President Trump’s response to the Charlottesville, Va., tragedy. I understand the feelings behind their impulse; I, too, am completely appalled by Mr. Falwell’s statements and continued support of the president. But I received both my bachelor’s and master’s degrees at Liberty, and I can say with confidence that Jerry Falwell Jr.’s disappointing stances do not reflect the guiding ethics of the school. He is an outward-facing figurehead, with minimal involvement with the student body. Returning my diploma would be giving him more influence over Liberty’s future than he deserves. It is incredibly frustrating for many students and alumni to see someone who positions himself as the voice of the school consistently undermine its values. Following in the footsteps of his father, who founded Liberty University and then became a leading voice in the Moral Majority, Jerry Falwell Jr. has become deeply enmeshed in politics. My time at Liberty, however, was not defined by right-wing conservatism or heated political fervor but by a thoughtful, nuanced education and the transformative relationships I built with professors and fellow students. Liberty students are not a uniform coalition of people who share the same views; we learn to think deeply, just like other college kids. But what sets Liberty apart is the sense of community that is possible there. As we come into our own beliefs on issues like worship, gender and sexuality, and even the existence of God, it’s within a safety net of teachers and roommates and friends who genuinely support the flourishing and growth of each other — regardless of the conclusions each person reaches. And that is irreplaceable. My freshman year, my first class was with an English professor who became as much of a maternal figure to me as an educational mentor. I can’t count the number of hours I spent talking with her about everything from Southern literature to my destructive patterns in romantic relationships, all while she lovingly supplied me with Diet Dr Peppers and made enough jokes at my expense to keep it light. Where my family or finances fell short, she would fill in the gaps. And she wasn’t the only supportive figure in my academic community: In the English department alone, I had three other professors I could run to at a moment’s notice, cry to without embarrassment and freely ask for advice. There is a sense of camaraderie at Liberty that extends from the dorms all the way to the deans. The three-hour discussions that followed my weekly psychology workshop, the classes I took with my professors-turned-mentors, the two years I traveled along the East Coast with a ministry team, the ample barbecue I devoured with friends at a teaching assistant’s house, and the movies I’d watch with my own students when I became a teaching assistant — those were my formative experiences. And they have nothing to do with Mr. Falwell. Is it embarrassing to me that he is what people associate with my degrees? Yes. Do I feel an ever-growing obligation to call on him to repent for his unwavering public support of Mr. Trump? Yes. In fact, I believe the school’s trustees should consider removing him because his comments will inevitably affect the types of student who will be attracted to, or turned off by, the school. His support of the president calls into question his moral judgments and ability to lead. But none of that bleeds into my feeling shame to the point of not associating with Liberty. Similarly, despite my personal frustrations with President Trump, I am not forfeiting my American citizenship. I’m simply determined to fight harder for the best parts of democracy. I’m also not leaving the evangelical church because prominent leaders are still supporting a president who is unashamed of his racist commentary or lewd boasts of sexual assault. Instead, I will fight to change that, and in this case, advocate the removal of those leaders from positions of power. So for those of us who aren’t yet swallowed up by resentment and still see promise in Liberty — despite Mr. Falwell’s crippling lack of judgment and the school’s systemic issues (like its rocky relationship with students of color or other marginalized groups on campus) — let’s do exactly what is needed to fix broken systems all around us, in government and elsewhere: Let’s make phone calls, stage peaceful protests, bring thought leaders together, analyze the problem as a community, and refuse to allow the status quo or biased media coverage to dictate our expectations for our institutions. I am better because of my time at Liberty, and I am indebted to my professors and peers who taught me to think critically, live with conviction, and lead without compromise. I share the righteous anger of many of the alumni who want to return their diplomas, but I cannot act in the same way. I’m marked by the time I spent in Lynchburg, Va., and those years taught me how to fight for what I believe in. So while some are cutting the cord from Liberty, I’d rather figure out how to cut out the infection.