With all the shouting going on about monuments, I want to say a word about my favorite: the Whisper Bench in Central Park’s Shakespeare Garden. I’d been visiting this quiet spot for years before I even noticed that it was dedicated to Charles Stover. Under his name a simple inscription proclaims him “Founder of Outdoor Playgrounds.” When I read that for the first time, I laughed. How could one person be the founder of playgrounds? And shouldn’t he get more than a bench? Even more absurd was what I found when I looked him up. His Wikipedia page was barely two paragraphs long and made no mention of playgrounds at all. The article mainly concerned the day in 1913 that Stover, after three years as New York City’s parks commissioner, went out to lunch … and didn’t come back. For 39 days. Naturally, this made me more than a little curious about the man. I’ve been looking for him ever since. The first thing I discovered was that almost nobody — not my parents, not my high-school teachers — knew who Stover was. This seemed strange to me because he was an enormously important figure. In 1886 he was a co-founder of the University Settlement House — the first settlement house in the United States — from which he spearheaded the growing reform movement in New York City. Stover was also involved in efforts to preserve Central Park and develop more parks and playgrounds in poor neighborhoods. In 1898 he founded, together with Lillian Wald, the Outdoor Recreation League, which sponsored the construction of playgrounds as a substitute for unsupervised street play. As parks commissioner, Stover created the Bureau of Recreation, which built dozens of playgrounds in its first three years, including DeWitt Clinton Park, Seward Park and Jacob Riis Park. Many of Stover’s friends and colleagues — people like Jane Addams, Samuel Gompers and Jacob Riis — remain well known today, even as . Stover isn’t. That’s a shame, because his work touched the lives of countless individuals, rich and poor. An 18-year-old Eleanor Roosevelt, for example, volunteered as a dance instructor at the University Settlement House, and it was there that she opened her boyfriend Franklin’s eyes to the conditions of the poor. “Franklin looked around in surprise and horror,” she recalled years later in her memoir. “ ‘My God,’ he whispered, ‘I didn’t know people lived like that!’ ” That, too, is Stover’s legacy. So why has Stover been forgotten? Although a prominent and influential figure, he did not seek fame or fortune. In a letter to a friend in 1927, he wrote, “My real preference is to be writ in water — just such complete obliteration as the poet Keats feared would be his fate.” He never married and kept no house of his own, preferring instead to live at University Settlement. He was a very private person, prone to bouts of depression, and was known to vanish occasionally with no explanation. After he disappeared in 1913, a nationwide search paradoxically made him a celebrity; his image was shown in 10,000 movie theaters. When he came back after three months, he said only that he’d been visiting parks in the South, and then threw himself into work at University Settlement. When Stover died in 1929, he left only a few books and papers, but his legacy went far beyond his possessions. He spent his time and money providing playgrounds, gardens, housing and other services for poor immigrant children and their families, all the while battling his depression. One man who admired Stover and tried to keep his name alive was, in many ways, his polar opposite. Robert Moses was a brilliant, sharp-elbowed political operator who covered New York in grand public works that sometimes bore his name and made him incredibly famous in the process. But Moses had also been a reformer, and he had great respect for Stover. So in 1936, when Moses was parks commissioner, he dedicated the 20-foot curved granite bench that is situated on a rocky outcrop in Central Park’s Shakespeare Garden, a garden that Mr. Stover himself commissioned, to his friend. It is the only monument to bear Stover’s name. The bench is elegant but modest, just like Stover himself. But what makes it even more appropriate is a quirk of its design that allows a person to whisper into one rounded corner of the bench and be heard with perfect clarity by someone at the other end. I learned about this feature from an 8-year-old boy — just the sort of person Stover cared about — who was visiting the bench with his grandmother. Stover believed — and his life proves — that it is possible to make a difference in the world without yelling. It is easy to get caught up in the shouting of politicians, or to want simply to walk away from it all. That is why it is more important than ever to listen to the stories of those around us. I plan to go on looking for Stover, but his bench has already taught me an important lesson: Sometimes the most powerful words are the ones that are whispered.