Hi, everyone. Thanks to the archaeology department for all that you’ve taught me. Go, class of 2617! My excavation of an ancient condo — long thought to belong to my ancestors — revealed some unexpected findings that dispute the persisting idea that they were wealthy. I’ll get right to my slides. Among our most disturbing discoveries? Antique world maps. To what low level of society must my ancestors have sunk to have lost access to GPS, which we understand to have been nearly universal at that time? You can see here that someone has scrawled “Wanderlust” across one of the maps: confusing, as the omnipresence of takeout bags indicates that my ancestors never left their house, much less the country. One thing is certain: They were resourceful. What they couldn’t afford to buy — practically everything — they built. Here, they’ve fashioned a coat rack out of a tree stump. Here, a cheese grater has been painted teal and used as a jewelry organizer. Here, a cinder block serves as a nightstand. Don’t pity my ancestors, though. Evidence suggests they were a proud people. We observed that the top drawer of the bedside dresser was painted a dark green, the middle drawer a lighter green and the lowest drawer an almost white green, probably because the family ran out of paint and could not afford more. And yet they persisted. Based on our study of their notes and Pinterest tags, we believe they even had an ancient word for this determination in the face of all obstacles: “ombre.” You can see in this slide that their furniture is made almost entirely from shipping pallets. The extensive use of pallets — here’s one, in the living room, and here’s another acting as a bed frame — leads me to conclude that they must have lived near a shipyard. Perhaps they worked long hours on the docks, or a kindly shipment manager felt pity and let them have worn pallets at a discount, the way bakeries do with day-old bread. My ancestors apparently suffered from short-term memory loss. Reminders of everyday tasks are scribbled all over the apartment. A pillow — a sleeping pillow? — simply says, “Dream.” A sign in the kitchen states, “But first, coffee.” And, bewilderingly, the command “Be” is scrawled in red lipstick on the bathroom mirror. Their cognitive impairments were evidently such that they required daily reminders just to exist. Why? Literacy must have been at an all-time low. Books are present in the dwelling, but they appear to be primarily a device for learning colors — see how they are arranged not by subject or author but by the colors of their spines. The only book that shows any sign of use is “Infinite Jest”: the first 85 pages look as if they’ve been read no fewer than six times, but the rest of the book remains untouched, even though remnants of an online dating profile we found claimed that it was the apartment owner’s favorite book. Flora and fauna in these photographs indicate that my ancestors lived in an arid climate, probably the desert. In this series, you’ll notice succulents and cactuses alike. Scientists have only recently discovered that succulents thrive best when perched precariously on a stack of vintage gardening books, but my ancestors clearly already knew this. Isn’t that how it often goes? They may not have had book learning, but they had street smarts. Perhaps most chilling to our modern sensibilities is the skull and horns of some great beast — a deer buck? — mounted above their fireplace. It’s been painted a matte white, likely for sanitary reasons. Were my ancestors hunter-gatherers, or did they eke out a living on a taxidermist’s pay? I am inclined to say both. These discoveries should reshape the way we view the economic ecosystem of not only a single family living in a three-bedroom condo in the 2000s, but also, perhaps, all upper-middle-class white people. I know I’ll never look at my ancestors the same way, understanding now the struggles they faced.