What I know of rural white America mostly begins and ends with the three times I went at the age of 8 to visit a friend’s farm in Butler County, Pa., about an hour north of Pittsburgh, where I grew up. I recall vast farmland, ample sunshine and no black people — or Hispanics or Jews, or for that matter, half-Iranian, half-Jewish people like me. There was, however, my friend’s father, who found it amusing to make fun of my name over dinner, coming up with a wide variety of ways to mispronounce it each time. I did my best to politely correct him each time, until it finally became apparent to me that I was participating in a game in which there was no chance of winning, and I ran from the table and out of the house and cried among the farmland. It is, of course, unfair to judge an entire county with a population of almost 200,000 on the behavior of one man 40 years ago, but I hope you can understand my disbelief when on a dark night last November, I watched on television as Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign tried to assure her supporters that little Butler County was going to come through for her in the 11th hour and overtake Donald Trump’s lead in Pennsylvania, and by extension the Electoral College. Now, I thought, is as good a time as any to turn off the television and go bury my head under the pillow. About a year after that visit to my friend’s farm, my mother signed me up for Saturday morning art classes at a museum in Pittsburgh. I had very little aptitude for art, and I was mostly frustrated and bored, and the fact that it was a long, cold winter did not make it any easier to wake up early and catch the bus that took me there. There were a dozen or so other children in the class, one of whom was a boy who, unlike me, had actually been born in the Middle East and who had a noticeable accent and a name I can no longer remember, but which was as strange as mine. He saw in me, no doubt, a kindred spirit, and wanted to be my friend and to sit beside me and draw. But I was uninterested in having someone in such proximity who would emphasize my own foreignness — a predicament that I was already at the age of 9 trying my best to avoid. So rather than be friendly with the boy, I ignored him. And when, midway through the course, I had the good fortune of becoming buddies with two white classmates, I saw that I had an even greater opportunity to stake my claim as a genuine American who, only through the misfortune of having an Iranian father (who was not much of a presence in my life), had been saddled with a secondary identity. What transpired was gleeful mockery of the Middle Eastern boy by us three, in which we took turns ridiculing his name and accent and the clothes he wore. When eventually the boy could take no more and fled the classroom crying, exactly as I had done on my friend’s farm in Butler County, the teacher took me aside to point out the cruel absurdity of my behavior. “How would you feel,” I remember her asking, “if your name was made fun of?” The point being that I, of all people, should know better than to humiliate someone because of his ethnicity. The teacher’s effort to guide me toward self-examination embarrassed me, and my response, which still rings vividly in my ears, was an emphatic, “I would beat them up!” I knew, even as I said it, that this was patently false, that I was far too much of a coward to defend myself physically, that I had never once stood up to anyone in a situation like that, and that I lived my life in utter fear of being called out. But I relished the sound of my own false bravado, just as I had relished tormenting the poor immigrant boy. My yearning to align with power, particularly white power, had overwhelmed any sense of the rational. I was operating in a realm beyond logic, where matters of right and wrong, of good will, of humanity, no longer held any sway. There is, of course, much to consider about the role played in all this by the ignorance of my 9-year-old self, about my easy capitulation to groupthink, about my desperation to somehow undo what I had been born into. But standing there with my teacher kneeling in front of me, a look of disappointment etched across her face, I was neither interested nor capable of being in touch with any of that. I was propelled by something far more fundamental and intoxicating and disturbing, something that could not be argued away with the use of reason: It had felt good.