By the late summer of 1967, Lyndon Johnson faced a stark choice on Vietnam. His secretary of defense, Robert McNamara, had become convinced that the war was unwinnable and urged the president to announce a bombing halt to coax North Vietnam into negotiations. But the generals on the Joint Chiefs of Staff pushed back — the war was winnable, they insisted, if only the president would double down on bombing, mine the North’s main port of Haiphong harbor and add 200,000 men to the ranks, most of them destined for Vietnam. Mediating between his civilian and military advisers was hard enough. Then came Senator John C. Stennis of Mississippi. The Senate had been growing increasingly restive over the war for months. Antiwar (or at least pro-negotiation) factions had emerged in both parties, as had voices calling for a more aggressive strategy to win the war. Stennis, a Democrat, was among the latter. He was an ally of Johnson’s, and the president might have been able to keep his bellicose dissent to a minimum. But Stennis was looking for a fight, and he had a big gun: the Senate Preparedness Investigating Subcommittee, which he headed as a member of the Armed Services Committee. Over the course of August 1967, Stennis used his little-known subcommittee to host a series of high-profile hearings that gave the win-the-war caucus a national platform and forced Johnson into a compromise that, arguably, extended the war by several years. The hearings took place at a time when Johnson was facing growing public disillusionment over the war. A Gallup poll in early August found that 52 percent disapproved of his handling of the war, and only 34 percent believed that the United States was making progress in Vietnam. Antiwar activists, joined by several liberal members of Congress and even some returning veterans, were making plans for a national rally against the war in October. Johnson correctly feared that the Stennis hearings could stir further public debate about the war, adding significantly to his problems. From his earliest days in Congress, Johnson had been a consensus builder, and he knew firsthand how important domestic public opinion was. But he was also consumed with the dreadful thought of America losing a war during his tenure in the White House. “I am not going to be the first president to lose a war,” Johnson assured his aides. Advertisement In announcing his hearings, Stennis made clear that he was swinging for the fences. They would, he said, “involve the overall policy and philosophy governing and controlling the conduct of the entire war.” For nine days, Stennis’s subcommittee heard testimony from 10 high-ranking military officials, including the chairman and members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, ranking generals and admirals in the Pacific and Southeast Asia commands, and from McNamara, their civilian commander. The Stennis hearings began on Aug. 9 with testimonies from members of the military, all of whom supported an expansion of the war. Gen. John P. McConnell, chief of staff of the Air Force, told the subcommittee that without an escalation of the bombing of North Vietnam, the United States might have to greatly expand the ground war and send 800,000 additional troops to Vietnam. This would mean tripling the war’s costs at a time when McNamara was trimming the defense budget and closing American military bases around the globe. Bombing, McConnell concluded, was the one action “most likely to force the enemy to reconsider his avowed hard line. … He cannot escape the reality that we have the controlling instrument of military power.” Gen. Earle Wheeler, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, agreed, arguing that there was “no question” that the military needed to expand its target list. Adm. U. S. Grant Sharp testified that curtailing the bombing “would be a disaster” because “we would immediately face a large increase in loss of American troops in South Vietnam,” and that would “extend the war indefinitely.” During the hearings, Stennis used his allotted time to applaud the military repeatedly, adding that he, too, supported a significant expansion of the war. And he added a political edge to the debate, charging the Johnson administration with holding back in Vietnam when it should be charging ahead. He was particularly critical of McNamara’s handling of the air war. Stennis leaked to the press that Admiral Sharp, during his testimony, had shown the subcommittee additional military targets that he said should have been placed on the eligible target list. Why hadn’t McNamara approved these targets? Why hadn’t Johnson allowed the mining of Haiphong harbor? Stennis publicly doubted that the civilians in the Johnson administration could bring the war to a successful conclusion, a direct challenge to the president’s authority as commander in chief and the charge that Johnson feared most. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. McNamara’s turn came on Aug. 25, and he didn’t disappoint. He delivered a point-by-point rebuttal of the Pentagon brass’s claims. Nothing, he said, would move the North Vietnamese: “There is little reason to believe that any level of conventional air or naval action, short of sustained and systematic bombing of the population centers” — something the Johnson administration was not willing to do — “will deprive the North Vietnamese of their willingness to continue to support their government’s efforts to upset and take over the government of South Vietnam.” Addressing the concerns about military targets Stennis had raised in the press, McNamara declared that 85 percent of the targets recommended by the Joint Chiefs had been approved for strikes and that there had been no prohibitions on bombing any targets of military significance. He couldn’t approve the chiefs’ proposals because, however tempting it might be to try to save South Vietnam by bombing North Vietnam, the possibility of achieving victory, or even forcing a negotiated settlement, in that way was “completely illusory.” To pursue this strategy, he declared, “would not only be futile but would involve risks to our personnel and to our nation that I am unable to recommend.” Not surprisingly, Stennis and the other members of his hawkish subcommittee sided with the military. Its final report chastised McNamara’s policy of gradualism and determined that “logic and prudence require that the decision be with the unanimous weight of professional military judgment.” The subcommittee said it was not advocating “the indiscriminate bombing” of civilian population centers, but it argued that the policy of “a carefully controlled, restricted and graduated buildup of bombing pressure which discounted the professional judgment of our best military experts” had not “done the job.” The report concluded that McNamara had “shackled” the American military in Vietnam and that it was “high time” to allow the “military voice to be heard in connection with the tactical details of military operations.” Johnson was on the horns of a dilemma. Highly attuned to public opinion, he was already skeptical of either option his military advisers had presented: He believed that those who opposed the war would not be placated by any restriction on the bombing, even the total halt McNamara favored; they wanted a complete withdrawal of American troops. He also thought that expanding the war, as the Joint Chiefs proposed, would cost him public support for his Vietnam policies. At the same time, Johnson feared that there would be a revolt in his military command if he imposed further restrictions on the military. There were already unsubstantiated rumors that the chiefs were going to resign en masse if Johnson further limited the bombing. Stennis’s hearings, coming at what might have been a strategic turning point in the war, made a deeper presidential reckoning with the war almost impossible. Instead, Johnson tried to bridge the gap between McNamara and the Joint Chiefs without addressing the fundamental issues at the root of their rupture. Wanting neither to challenge the hawks nor to intensify the public debate over bombing, he tried to chart a middle course when there probably was none that could be successful. He rejected McNamara’s proposed limitations on the bombing, but he expanded the bombing targets around Hanoi and Haiphong. He also rejected the military’s request for 200,000 additional troops — not all of whom would have gone to Vietnam — but he did give Gen. William Westmoreland, the officer in charge of America’s military effort in Vietnam, 55,000 new troops. The one measure Johnson rejected outright was mining Haiphong harbor: He worried that a Soviet or Chinese supply ship might be hit, leading to bigger problems than Vietnam. Advertisement Johnson thought that he could balance the various American viewpoints on bombing and the war without resolving the administration’s fundamental dilemma: whether to get out of Vietnam altogether or to escalate the war. This was a major mistake. Without a sound strategy based on a full and frank debate within the administration, Johnson could only tinker with tactics, and this pleased no one. By not providing clear direction from the White House, Johnson lost the consensus he so desperately needed to lead effectively. Robert K. Brigham is a professor of history and international relations at Vassar. Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 