Last spring, I found myself holed up in my mother’s guest room, 28 years old and facing unemployment yet again. Since I graduated from Hampton University in 2011, I’ve bounced from short-term job to internship to short-term job and back again. I worked as a receptionist at a Brazilian waxing boutique, a nanny, a caterer and a video production assistant. I did a stint as a “creamologist” at a nitrogen ice cream shop in Los Angeles and cut fudge at Dylan’s Candy Bar in New York. A few years ago, I went back to school for a master’s in journalism, but even after earning a Georgetown degree, I couldn’t escape the world of odd jobs. So after 13 years away, I reached out to the New England girl’s camp of my youth and made plans to return for the summer as a counselor. I could barely help my mom thread the needle as she hemmed my old camp uniform. It was a stark reminder of where my career wasn’t. On social media, all of my friends looked to be living impressive lives and holding down impressive careers. But here I was, going backward. As I packed, I told myself it would be good to revisit my roots before I moved forward. I vowed to spend any free time wisely: I’d apply for jobs, meditate, send networking emails and repeat. A summer in Vermont would be a chance to buy some time, make a little money and avoid the constant reminder of my millennial misfortunes. So what if I had to battle some wasps, spiders and sunburn? The camp is rustic and beautiful, settled neatly on a hilltop above a silvery lake. Girls ages 12 to 16 attend for a true outdoors experience, many leaving their swanky Upper East Side digs to live in platform tents for two months. Both counselors and campers wear uniforms reminiscent of “The Parent Trap”: Green shorts and white shirts, and a green fleece or flannel for chilly mornings. It’s a magical place, with a jam-packed schedule. Each morning, a bugle blows at 7 a.m. and girls trundle down the hillside, stuffing themselves full of oatmeal and scrambled eggs before they spend the day kayaking, swimming and sailing. Confidence building is the name of the game here, and it is pretty inspiring to watch once-timid campers take ownership of new skills, like how to portage a canoe or shoot an arrow dead center into a target. The older girls are required to colead outdoors expeditions, so they become well versed in building fires, reading maps, administering first aid, planning meals and encouraging their younger charges. No electronics are allowed at camp, but the girls fill any stretch of silence with nonstop singing. With dusk comes evening programs, bonfires and the lonesome sound of a trumpet playing taps, willing campers to go to sleep. The days were marathons. I was quickly exhausted. I barely had time to call home, let alone apply for jobs. At first, I didn’t know how to deal with crying campers or their interpersonal dramas. Then I began to notice a different kind of energy. Many of the girls could easily be overwhelmed, anxious to the point where they couldn’t have fun. These are young women who are used to intense pressure. They work hard to get good grades, look the right way and fit in. They strive to be talented and accomplished in all that they do. And because they were approaching camp with the same kind of rigor and intensity, every new skill — be it a canoe stroke or a bowl made on the pottery wheel — took on outsize importance. Campers used the word “stress” more than any of my adult friends. Working with these girls kind of put things in perspective for me. Part of me wanted to dismiss their issues or just tell them to calm down, because they will encounter much bigger challenges in life. But the issues that were trivial to me were very real to them, and at one point, I had struggled with them, too. It would have been silly to urge them not to sweat the small stuff because I was the queen of sweating the small stuff. In many of these moments I’d look into their eyes, 14 years old with none of the answers, and see myself, 28 and still without any formula of how to live life correctly. As I coached the campers through their anxieties and problems, I began speaking to myself — and my anxieties and problems — with a new sense of compassion. I had been spending so much energy on being upset with myself, my career path and my inability to “get things right.” But I wasn’t trapped. I, too, could rethink how I spent my emotional energy. Rest hour is a coveted time at camp — some 45 minutes of complete silence in the middle of the day when campers take to their tents. It became the anchor of my day. At the beginning of the summer, I used that time to brood about my problems and map out dozens of life plans. But as the summer wore on, rest hour became the most peaceful time; I could relax and enjoy the best of a New England summer served chill. On stormy days, I’d lay transfixed by the sounds of rain on the tent. The weather would come in powerful and gorgeous, bold and demanding — confident, the way my campers and I aspire to be.