Durham, N.C. — Some of the most heartening images to emerge from storm-torn Houston this week have been of neighbors doing what we all hope our neighbors will do when we are in trouble. From shuttling victims to safety in their personal boats to braving waist-high water searching for the stranded, neighbors have been helping neighbors cope with the worst natural disaster ever to strike the nation’s fourth-largest city, and doing it without regard to politics or ideology. Another neighbor has offered to help us in these desperate times, a neighbor that also came to our aid when Hurricane Katrina pummeled the Gulf Coast 12 years ago. That neighbor is Mexico. The Trump administration should accept its help again, and do so with thanks and gratitude. Because, as Hurricane Harvey can teach President Trump, that’s what neighbors do. I witnessed Mexico’s willingness to be a good neighbor while serving as the No. 2 at the American Embassy in Mexico City in 2005. Within hours of Hurricane Katrina’s landfall in New Orleans, Mexican officials were on the phone offering to send army field kitchens and naval cleanup crews to the stricken areas. Those offers frankly caught us flat-footed. We were accustomed to looking at Mexico as the poor relation who needed our help, not the other way around. Even more surprising, the Mexican Army was by far the most nationalistic and anti-American element in the Mexican government. Yet it ended up leading a convoy of more than 200 Mexican soldiers to assist displaced Americans in San Antonio, where it eventually served 170,000 meals, distributed more than 184,000 tons of supplies and conducted more than 500 medical consultations. Although few Americans outside of Texas were aware of the episode, it was a major morale boost for Mexico and a transformative moment in American-Mexican military-to-military relations, which thawed noticeably from that point forward. Mexico has again done the neighborly thing, and we can again transform our relationship. On Tuesday, the Mexican Embassy in Washington formally sent a diplomatic note to the State Department offering humanitarian assistance to the victims of Hurricane Harvey. The Mexican foreign ministry had issued a news release over the weekend signaling the move and noting that it was acting “as good neighbors should always do in times of difficulty.” The Mexican offer must still be approved by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the State Department, in coordination with Texas officials, who will decide what they need. While the details remain to be hashed out, Mexico has a proven disaster-relief capability and is next door to the worst-hit areas. The approval process was complicated in 2005 by chaos in Washington and red tape on the ground — federal agricultural inspectors at the border almost turned the Mexican kitchen convoy around because its cooks couldn’t prove that beef they were carrying came from a mad-cow-free facility. This time, we should not let interagency fumbling cause delays. Mexico’s decision to come to our assistance in 2005 was unexpected. But its willingness to help us again today seems even more stunning. Mexico remains the United States’ second-largest export market, fourth-largest oil provider and the only country besides Canada with which we share a land border. Our economies, culture and history are highly integrated and critically interdependent, as those of neighbors often are. Yet President Trump has made Mexico-bashing the applause line of countless campaign speeches and late-night tweets. Even as the Mexican government was preparing its assistance offer over the weekend, with the hurricane churning over South Texas, Mr. Trump continued his tirade. “With Mexico being one of the highest crime Nations in the world, we must have THE WALL,” he tweeted. “Mexico will pay for it through reimbursement/other.” Mexican leaders may well see their offer as an effort to counter Mr. Trump’s anti-Mexico monologue. But they also have a record of demonstrating that when the chips are down, humanity trumps hubris. If Texas decides it could use Mexico’s help, Mr. Trump should swallow whatever embarrassment he feels at what he has said in the past and seize this opportunity to set our relationship right. It would be the neighborly thing to do.