This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. When The Times invented the “Op. Ed. Page” in 1970, the editors announced that they were hoping to create “an intellectual forum” with “divergent” views. In that spirit, I want to call attention to a piece taking issue with a recent Times Op-Ed. (Yes, the punctuation style on Op-Ed has changed since 1970.) Last week, the author Caroline Randall Williams wrote an article addressed to Barack Obama, urging him to speak up against President Trump, especially after Charlottesville. “We need your voice,” she wrote. “There is not a saner, more trustworthy opinion that many of us would rather hear.” In The Daily Beast this week, Jamil Smith disagreed. Hearing from Obama more often may well offer relief to progressives. But Smith argues — persuasively, to my mind — that a more talkative Obama would hurt the causes that matter to Obama and his allies. A higher-profile Obama would help drive Republicans and some independents back into Trump’s corner, given that many of them don’t like the former president. Even as president, Obama came to understand this dynamic and sometimes, rather than inserting himself into an issue and polarizing it, he held back. Remember: The opposition to Trump is doing pretty well. He is struggling, with a record-low approval rating and frequent criticism from his own party (and even his own appointees). “Look at the Obamacare fight,” Smith writes. Obama “largely stayed out of the way as an insurgent movement took hold amongst voters of every stripe. I never in my life thought I’d see white Republican voters in Arkansas passionately defend Obamacare to their senator, but it happened.” The Democratic Party certainly needs national voices to counter Trump. But Obama shouldn’t be one of them. The party needs new voices, including some who may one day run for the office Obama once occupied. I encourage you to read both Smith’s and Williams’s pieces, as well as some of the more than 1,200 reader comments on Williams’s and a Letter to the Editor. I was also struck that Eric Schultz, who works for Obama, used Twitter yesterday to call attention to Smith’s piece. On the news. A front-page story on floods in yesterday’s Wall Street Journal included a chilling statistic: “Twenty storms causing a billion dollars or more in damage have taken place since 2010, not including Hurricane Harvey, compared with nine billion-dollar floods in the full decade of the 1980s, according to inflation-adjusted estimates from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Seven have hit just since 2016...” Climate change, anyone? Trump talked up his tax reform plan yesterday in populist terms, but don’t take him at his word. The actual proposals he has released so far have had two main qualities: They’re vague, and they mostly help the wealthy. “Remember: lack of tax details is not due to laziness/incompetence - it reflects impossibility of a GOP plan that matches Trump rhetoric,” Jacob Leibenluft tweeted. Politico reported that Robert Mueller is collaborating with Eric Schneiderman, the New York attorney general, as part of the Russia inquiry. Juliette Kayyem, a national security expert, argues that the collaboration is an attempt to limit Trump’s pardon power, because he can’t pardon people for state crimes. If you enjoy New York Times history, check out Robert Semple’s 1990 reflection, when the Op-Ed page turned 20. Semple, who remains a member of the Editorial Board, has had one of the great Times careers of the past half-century.