HOUSTON — Houston is sprawling, made of dozens of little Houstons. Bellaire is not Montrose is not the Heights is not Sugar Land, and it’s possible to go years without stepping foot in one community or the other. Each one vibrates on its own frequency. I grew up here. I’ve spent summers biking around the city’s wards. In any given part of Houston, you’ll hear two or three or four languages spoken. You can grab a Oaxacan breakfast midmorning, and pho a little farther west for lunch. It’s the country’s most diverse major city. It’s also a city of stupefying inequality, with a widening income gap, and clear lines between those who have and those who don’t. For a city as fragmented as ours, Harvey could’ve completely broken us. Instead, the opposite happened. On Tuesday afternoon in Houston, at the George R. Brown Convention Center, officials started turning volunteers away. They encouraged them to try their neighborhood’s local shelters. They truly appreciated the help. But the response of Houstonians had eclipsed the demand. The people I met at shelters and on boats, and the folks in line waiting to volunteer weren’t asking where the evacuees came from, or who paid what for where. They just wanted to help. The city showed up. Our presence was as momentous as the disaster itself. I asked a guy who was driving his boat downtown what had brought him out to help, and he told me it was because his family had been spared. A nurse outside of a shelter who was shepherding a group of mentally ill evacuees said to me that she had lost everything. But volunteers on a boat had evacuated her from her house, so she had to pay it back. We had college kids evacuating homeless residents in wheelchairs through Hermann Park, and the Chinese Community Center housed as many as possible before it, too, flooded. And then there were the neighborhood churches and high schools with piles of snacks and toys, and the neighbors walking and driving and wading to help. Another key fact of life in Houston this week: In the face of the unrelenting disaster, we are still a city of jokesters. On a last minute trip to the H-E-B grocery, before the roads were impassable, neighbors joked about slashing prices. My kolache guy cracked about having the steadiest job in town. Friends joked about having beachfront views as their belongings floated beneath them. One afternoon, surveying the damage, I saw a gust of wind carry a neighbor’s trash bin down his street. A pack of us took off for it, plodding through the water, until we cornered it past a cul-de-sac. Reeling it in, he slowly shook his head: The bin was full of recyclables. Those wouldn’t go out again until next week. Around here, there’s this saying: We like to keep it trill. Like, we stay really, really easy. And now, as ever, we’ve taken care of each other. We keep it really real, because our diversity forces us to. And what’s really real is our city’s ultimately coming together, and that we remain a haven; from disasters natural and otherwise. This isn’t to say that there won’t be challenges ahead: The city’s air pollution, a crisis on a good day, was exacerbated by the storm’s damage to oil refineries and by explosions at a chemical factory. Real action must be taken to curtail the city’s vulnerability to climate change. And our undocumented residents, who are essential to the city’s foundation, have been and will continue to be persecuted by federal and state law. Over the next few months, our city will have to protect vulnerable populations, whether they’re queer or straight, brown or black or white, lifetime locals or recent transplants. We have to do right by them. If we hope to rebuild, we won’t have a choice. But being a Houstonian means not even considering the decision. It means not asking why we’re doing the hard thing, but how we’re going to get it done. When I was outside of the convention center a few days ago, a bunch of trucks dropped off groups of volunteers with backpacks. There were teenagers in sweatpants, and uniformed officers, and doctors and lawyers and gas-station clerks, and a pack of high-school-age girls stood among them. They were a diverse little crew, with snapbacks and hijabs and purple hair. After they plugged a volunteer for information, he thanked them for their time, but told them they’d probably be turned away. The girls thanked him back and wandered over to another volunteer herding traffic. They asked her how they could help, and told her they needed to be here, and this lady gave them the same look as the gentleman did before. But then she nodded at them, and then they nodded back. She led them inside to see what they could do.