It began on the slopes in Aspen the last week of 1989. A real estate mogul and his paramour, a model named Marla Maples, had the misfortune to walk straight into the path of the mogul’s wife, Ivana Trump. There was a confrontation. And a short time later the gossip columns were consumed with the first juicy scandal of the 1990s. One tabloid headline went so far as to declare “Best Sex I Ever Had,” a reference (some say apocryphal) to how Ms. Maples rated Donald Trump.  The scandal, and the Trumps’ messy divorce, was but the opening salvo in a decade dominated by baby boomers who had taken the cultural reins in Hollywood, on Madison Avenue — and in Washington. Here’s what soon followed: an escalation in tabloid coverage in general; the birth of the web, Fox News and the 24/7 news cycle; incessant personal branding; and a new coarseness in public discourse. More than 20 years later, it’s the ’90s all over again. O. J. Simpson will soon be released from prison. A reboot of “Twin Peaks” has been appointment TV. And only a year ago two consummate ’90s hangovers (and in one case a comb-over) — Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump — faced off for the presidency in the culture wars’ ultimate elimination round. Sure, the pundits have been more in 1970s mode lately, likening Team Trump to the Nixon White House during Watergate. But the 1990s have never seemed more relevant. Bill Clinton’s presidential victory in 1992 not only set the stage for Hillary Clinton’s defeat but also led to Newt Gingrich’s 1994 Republican revolution, which gave the party’s boomers a majority in the House and initiated an angry, obstructionist, anti-establishment movement that, abetted by the far-right fringe, would later fuel Mr. Trump’s ascent. What’s more, a Trump presidency would never have been possible had the ’90s not normalized new depths of voyeurism, mudslinging and hardball politics. That decade had its dark-arts tacticians, such as Roger Ailes, Rudolph Giuliani and Newt Gingrich, and the recent election had its equivalents, such as, well, Roger Ailes, Rudolph Giuliani and Newt Gingrich. Bill Clinton’s base warmed to his naughtiness, neediness and narcissism; Mr. Trump’s did precisely the same. Through it all, of course, Mr. Trump chose to treat politics as a reality show, a genre spawned in 1992 with MTV’s “The Real World.” And thanks to his own TV franchise, “The Apprentice,” he proved to have a fanatical following, putting him in the same league as the Kardashians and Kanye West; the “Duck Dynasty” crew and the die-hards of pro wrestling, many of whose matches he had hosted in the ’90s. The Trump Show, in the end, was “Survivor”; in contrast, Hillary Clinton’s outreach efforts felt like a PBS fund drive. Ever since, it has been hard to miss the 1990s underpinnings of the Trump Teens. The tabloidism. The gutter talk. The kinky dossiers. (Remember the X-rated Starr report?) Had America not absorbed the sheer skeeviness of that decade, how else would it have become comfortable electing a thrice-married man who ran beauty contests and graced casinos, one of them with a strip club, with his name — a man accused of a string of unwanted sexual advances and assaults (all of which he denied)? The ’90s have been collapsing back onto themselves. “Many of the same players have returned to the political stage,” said Henry Schuster, a TV news producer. “But they are fighting with bazookas now. Newt and Callista Gingrich. Ann Coulter. Kellyanne Conway, whose husband, George, had worked pro bono for Paula Jones.” Here, as well, are Rupert Murdoch, in the catbird seat; the former Trump strategist Stephen Bannon, who earned a fortune from his stake in the ultimate ’90s sitcom, “Seinfeld”; and Roger Stone, the political operative who resigned from Bob Dole’s 1996 campaign after it was revealed he had placed “swinger” personal ads. (And let’s not forget Pamela Anderson, who has been hanging out with Julian Assange, who’d helped disseminate the hacked emails of Hillary Clinton’s team.) It’s a virtual ’90s reunion — for the kids in the naughty class. As if by some universal law of media physics, then, the Naughty Nineties have imploded to become the Tawdry Teens. All truth is malleable and all secrets are exposed, as a nation watches compulsively, which is how we watch reality TV. Somehow there is a cold karma to it all. True, Mr. Trump lost the popular vote. But America has received what much of the nation had been asking for since the 1990s. In the electoral reckoning, civility had been trumped by hostility, respect by chauvinism, tolerance by bigotry, truth by fabrication and deceit, privacy by exposure, modesty by exhibitionism, achievement by fame, shame by shamelessness, and bridges by walls.