THE Summer of Love began with a burst of flower power. On June 1, 1967, the Beatles released “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band,” and the horticulture was nearly as impressive as the music. In the foreground of the album cover, the flowers spelled out the band’s name, and formed other shapes nearby — a guitar here, a star there. A daisy grew from John’s shoulder, a natural epaulet. On June 25, the flowers bloomed again during the live broadcast of a new Beatles song, “All You Need Is Love,” hastily prepared for a giant global viewing audience. Roughly 400 million people experienced the song simultaneously, through a BBC TV special, “Our World,” that was beamed around the world by satellite. A sea of flowers nearly swallowed Ringo, drumming in the background of a crowd scene, as if the cover had sprung to life. But flowers wither quickly, as Americans learned that summer. The hints were there from the beginning. Paradoxically, “All You Need Is Love” was borne aloft on the wings of a military-industrial complex that had never seemed mightier. On Dec. 7, 1966, NASA launched ATS-1, a powerful communications satellite that made possible the weather photographs and hurricane warnings that have since become essential viewing. The new satellite could also facilitate live television feeds between the continents, inspiring the BBC to produce a global television event showing snippets of life around the planet at the same time. Ten thousand technicians, working from 45 control rooms in 14 countries, coordinated the live feeds. What a wonderful world “Our World” seemed to be, with the British working in concert with Europe, and Americans and Russians building peace together, as one segment showed. But the vision of a flower-bedecked global village proved illusory. “All You Need Is Love” fragments around the 3-minute mark. George Martin, the Beatles’ producer, later said, “the boys wanted to freak out at the end,” and they did, including snatches of “Greensleeves,” Glenn Miller’s “In the Mood” and their own “She Loves You.” It ends in a very different place. A similar freakout disrupted the Summer of Love. The smallness of the global village soon began to magnify differences as well as similarities. By summer’s end, violence was exploding in 170 American communities. Television caught all of it. Speaking to the nation on July 27, President Lyndon Johnson tied himself in knots as he tried to empathize with all Americans at a time when they were coming apart. Those simmering hatreds made life harder for unifying figures like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who began to lose ground to a new cohort of leaders expert in the social media of their day — incendiary sound bites, and high-impact media appearances. H. Rap Brown called America “the Fourth Reich” and said “violence is as American as cherry pie.” The Black Panthers were delighted to pose frequently with guns. The center shrank further as the riots gave cover for the extreme right to pursue a mindless policy of race-baiting. In Alabama, Gov. Lurleen Wallace proposed that the Confederate colors be presented and “Dixie” sung before every college football game. Vietnam only deepened the divisions. The same satellites accelerated the news from Asia, and brought Indochina’s villages closer to the global village. The result was not pretty. American generals spoke in a surreal language that the Beatles could only aspire to, devising “pacification” programs that increased body counts and made peace ever more remote. Johnson seemed to be for war and peace at the same time, and insisted on South and North Vietnam’s right to “self determination.” But to secure it, he kept sending over more Americans, and lowered the draft age to 19. As the war intensified over the summer, so did the “Resistance,” a word heard more often. Ever sentient, the Beatles began to sense that their utopia was, in fact, nowhere. On Aug. 7, George Harrison’s visit to San Francisco’s Haight-Ashbury district, the epicenter of hippiedom, turned into a nightmare when he barely escaped the hordes of young people following him. His plane nearly crashed as he left San Francisco and flew directly into a storm. No one had consulted the weather satellite. On Aug. 27, as the Summer of Love was ending, the Beatles’ manager, Brian Epstein, died in his London flat from an accidental pill overdose. He had masterminded their appearance on “Our World” and so much else that had gone right for this extraordinary band. They could not attend his service, for fear of crowds; instead, they sent a lone chrysanthemum. Dr. King was also sensing the contraction of possibility in late summer. He too had enjoyed the “joyful rhythms” that were “coming back across the Atlantic with an English accent.” But like the Beatles, he occasionally had to confront the problem of hopes raised too high. On Aug. 16, speaking before the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, he seemed almost to anticipate his own funeral, not for the last time: “We may again, with tear-drenched eyes, have to stand before the bier of some courageous civil rights worker whose life will be snuffed out by the dastardly acts of bloodthirsty mobs.” By the time Labor Day weekend rolled in, June’s flowers were a distant memory, and there were hurricanes coming fast. South Vietnam’s presidential election, on Sept. 3, revealed a regime far more skilled at stuffing ballots than earning the loyalty of its people. The next day Operation Swift began, a brutal search-and-destroy mission that left dozens of Marines dead after one day. In Chicago, that same weekend, hundreds of leftists came together as the National Conference for New Politics — a hopelessly disorganized assembly that agreed on little except the need for change. A year later, the multiple traumas of 1968 would deepen the disenchantment; but clearly something had gone wrong well before the Summer of Love petered out in a long slow fade. In retrospect, there was always something funereal about the flowers on the cover of “Sgt. Pepper.” It just took some time to understand what they were trying to say.