This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. The debate over tax policy is going to become more intense this week. My column today tells a story from a half-century ago — about a man named George Romney, who voluntarily turned down a lot of money — as a way of introducing the debate. Taxes will become a focus because Congress returns today from its summer recess, with its Republican leaders and President Trump desperate for a legislative win. Having failed on health care policy, they’ve decided that a tax overhaul is their new goal. Later today, Trump is scheduled to meet at the White House with the so-called Big Six, a group of top administration officials and congressional leaders working on tax policy. In the coming weeks, you may sometimes find the subject to be mind-numbingly complicated. It’s tax policy, after all. But the core of the issue isn’t so complicated. The two overriding questions are: Will Trump and Congress pursue tax reform — that is, a simpler tax code, which has the potential to lift economic growth — or will they merely go for a tax cut? And if they choose the tax cut, will most of the benefits flow to the affluent? So far, unfortunately, the early signs point to a relatively straightforward tax cut that mostly benefits the wealthy. For more on that subject, I recommend Chye-Ching Huang and Howard Gleckman (both here and here). In The Times recently, Sarah Anderson debunked some myths about corporate taxes, and the Editorial Board offered an overview. I also encourage you to keep in mind the “Mnuchin test,” a vow from Trump’s Treasury secretary that the president’s tax plan would not be a handout to the wealthy. That same issue — the tax code’s fairness — is the subject of my column. On the news. The United States and South Korea are taking different approaches to Kim Jong-un’s nuclear aggression, which is deepening the crisis, explains The Financial Times’s Gideon Rachman. “There’s a difference in political philosophy between the hawkish Trump administration,” Rachman says, and a South Korean government “more inclined to look towards negotiation and some kind of accommodation with North Korea.” And Rose Cuison Villazor, a law professor at the University of California at Davis, helps sort through Trump’s apparent decision to expose Dreamers to deportation, in a Times op-ed.