This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Paul Ryan offered some warm words about Dreamers. Marco Rubio went further, distancing himself from President Trump’s new immigration policy by tweeting a passage from the Bible. John McCain was blunter still, calling the decision “wrong.” But words aren’t enough. They’re not nearly enough. Ryan, Rubio, McCain and the other members of Congress have the power to do something in response to Trump’s decision to subject the 800,000 Dreamers — law-abiding people who entered the United States illegally as children — to potential deportation. Congress can pass a law that removes the threat hanging over them and lets them continue with their lives. If Congress doesn’t act, yesterday’s expressions of concern are mere hypocrisy. “I have zero patience for empty virtue signalling on this,” Susan Hennessey of Lawfare tweeted, in response to Rubio. “You’re a member of Congress. Don’t tell us how sad and pious you are; pass a law.” Greg Sargent of The Washington Post noted that Congress should pass a law quickly, given the uncertainty plaguing Dreamers. Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president and chief legal officer, said Trump’s move had shifted Microsoft’s lobbying priorities. “The entire business community cares about a tax reform,” Smith told NPR. “And yet it is very clear today a tax reform bill needs to be set aside until the Dreamers are taken care of.” Smith also suggested Microsoft would try to block the federal government from deporting its Dreamer employees. From the political right, Reihan Salam has argued that Trump’s move creates an opportunity for a bipartisan bill that both helps the Dreamers and rewrites immigration law to admit more skilled workers and fewer relatives of recent immigrants. It would be easy enough for Congress to pass a simpler bill, focused on Dreamers. The House passed one in 2010. It also won 55 Senate votes — a majority but not enough to overcome a filibuster. Among those who didn’t vote yes: McCain, Lindsey Graham, Susan Collins and two Democrats still in the Senate, Joe Manchin and Jon Tester. In The Times, Javier Palomarez explains why he quit a Trump advisory board yesterday, Paul Krugman breaks down the economics of the decision and the Editorial Board offers its take. Flashback: In a 1980 Republican primary debate, an attendee asked George H.W. Bush and Ronald Reagan about “illegal aliens.” The responses are pretty uplifting, given today’s immigrant-bashing administration. “We’re creating a whole society of really honorable, decent, family-loving people that are in violation of the law,” Bush said. He spoke of “six- and eight-year-old kids” who were made to feel as if “they’re living outside the law.” He concluded: “These are good people, strong people.” Reagan, for his part, took a swipe at the idea of “putting up a fence” and said the country should find a way to let the immigrants work here, earn money and pay taxes. The excerpt lasts only about two minutes and is worth watching. Related: Noah Smith of Bloomberg View points out that Jeff Sessions, the attorney general, wasn’t telling the truth when he said Tuesday that Dreamers had cost Americans jobs. Follow up, on taxes: Krugman, in response to my column yesterday, argues that the ideal top tax rate in the United States would be above 80 percent. A Krugman blog post from the archives has some technical details. Storm watch: Hurricane Irma has gained strength in the Caribbean and looks terrifying. “I am at a complete and utter loss for words looking at Irma’s appearance on satellite imagery,” said Taylor Trogdon, a senior scientist at the National Hurricane Center. Eric Holthaus, a meteorologist who writes for Grist, called it “stronger than Andrew or Katrina.”