The poet John Ashbery once said, “To be a famous American poet is not the same thing as being famous.” In our times, that is all too true, but John, who died on Sunday, was probably the closest thing to a famous living poet we had. And this is odd because his poems, though they are friendly and inviting, offer no easy answers, no comfortable affirmations. Far from it. Would-be sages are apt to say that what matters is not the arrival but the journey. An Ashbery poem shows us just what that maxim looks and feels like when put into practice — which, ironically, has caused many a pilgrim to say: “Wait! Stop! What?” I admit that, when I was relatively young and first encountered his great book “Three Poems,” I felt something similar — but then the rhythm, the point and counterpoint caught me up and I was swept along. It became my favorite of his works. I opened Facebook on Tuesday and found that poets were contributing to what was already a long list of sentences beginning, “Reading a John Ashbery poem is like …” I didn’t attempt a contribution then, but I will do so here. Ashbery poems are like involved daydreams from which, as with real dreams, there is no obvious exit. We may push the dream images aside, but to quote from his poem “The New Spirit,” which appeared in “Three Poems,” “forget as we will, something soon comes to stand in their place. Not the truth perhaps, but — yourself. It is you who made this. But the truth has passed on/to divide all.” See how each assertion here immediately slides off into its opposite? “You” may be “true,” but (hard swivel) “the truth has passed on” and suddenly we’re somewhere else. Another way to describe an Ashbery poem is to say that it’s a visceral experience of the passage of time. We always become aware of (to quote from “The Other Tradition”) “the roar of time plunging unchecked through the sluices.” He himself called his work a “worried continuing.” (And who isn’t familiar with that?) But I’m making his poems sound sad and ponderous now, and there is nothing less ponderous than an Ashbery poem. He is one poet who can somehow be simultaneously elegiac and playful, even goofy. He is, after all, the author of “Farm Implements and Rutabagas in a Landscape” and “Daffy Duck in Hollywood.” If you could find the impossible space where Franz Kafka overlapped with the Pop artist Roy Lichtenstein, John would be sitting there happily, grinning like the Cheshire cat. Recently I contributed a short piece to an online birthday card for John. We were supposed to choose our favorite Ashbery line and write something about it. I found it impossible to choose just one line — not only because there are so many good ones, but because, really, in an Ashbery poem, the action is always in transit, always hovering somewhere between the last line and the next in a sort of quantum superposition. I chose a passage from “The Other Tradition.” I’ll include it here because it seems, now, a fitting epitaph: I still rememberHow they found you, after a dream, in your thimble hat,Studious as a butterfly in a parking lot.The road home was nicer then. Dispersing, each of theTroubadours had something to say about how charityHad run its race and won, leaving you the ex-presidentOf the event … Meaning in an Ashbery poem is always about to arrive like the “studious” butterfly that settles all too briefly (or doesn’t), then veers off. A butterfly is never jaded! The reader arrives in the wake of some event, perhaps momentous, perhaps quotidian. Who knows now? They (and we) are already off to something else — if only the next parked car. John is/was the least pompous poet in the world. John is (was!) this studious butterfly, this Thumbelina in a thimble hat, always already “ex-president of the event.” When thinking about John, I find it natural to fall into paradoxes. Here I go again. No one writes (or will ever write) “like” him. As a poet, he was nothing like Whitman, yet like Whitman, he seemed to say, “Unscrew the doors themselves from their jambs.” Nothing was too incongruous for him. I often think that compartmentalization is the enemy of art. John was the enemy of compartments. He threw open doors for many poets of younger generations — myself included. My poems may not look much like his but his “new spirit” is present in them. I hate to say that anything will “live forever” — but his work is among those few things that should.