On Thursday, a million New York City children will return to school. Educators have long been concerned about a “summer slide” — the learning loss that often occurs when students are out of school for two months. It’s a serious problem. But it’s not just students who can slide backward during these months. Facing political and budgetary pressures, an entire school system can slide without strong leadership. That’s now happening in New York. In July, two weeks after the State Legislature reauthorized mayoral control of the public school system, Mayor Bill de Blasio’s administration quietly announced a policy reversal: In the coming year, schools will once again be forced to hire teachers that no other school has wanted to hire. As a former principal of a high school in the Bronx, I find it hard to imagine receiving worse news. The new policy concerns the approximately 800 teachers in the city’s Absent Teacher Reserve pool, a remnant of a teacher-placement system based on seniority, not what’s best for schools or children. These are teachers who, for whatever reason, have not gotten a job in any of the city’s 1,700 schools, sometimes for many years. The city is in this position because the union contract makes dismissing teachers a virtual impossibility. A result is that taxpayers spend more than $150 million a year to pay them not to teach. Given the alternative, though, it’s money well spent. Data recently released by the city reveals that a third of teachers in the reserve pool had faced disciplinary or legal charges, and as has been reported nearly 20 percent received poor ratings — startling given that 93 percent of New York City teachers are rated effective or better. Teachers in the reserve pool are supposed to actively search for new jobs within the system, but a 2014 analysis shows more than half had not applied for a single position in the previous year. That suggests a level of complacency that would be unthinkable among great teachers, who spend nights and weekends finding new ways to improve their practice and help their students learn. Forcing hundreds of these teachers upon schools this fall, as the de Blasio administration now plans to do, will weaken school accountability, damage staff morale by making hard-working teachers accept colleagues who don’t pull their weight and undermine the educational gains students have been making since the policy of forced placement was suspended more than a decade ago. And the harm done will not be evenly distributed. Most, if not all, reserve-pool placements will be in schools that already struggle to attract great teachers, with teacher vacancy rates that are double or triple those of their counterparts in more affluent communities; those vacancy rates make them prime spots to put unwanted, unmotivated teachers. These schools generally serve predominantly low-income minority students, who arrive with the fewest resources, smallest safety nets and lowest chances of rising from poverty. Foisting teachers with checkered pasts or bottom-of-the-barrel skills on these students makes their path out of poverty only a steeper climb. The fact that principals have to divert precious resources from essential programming and staff to pay for reserve-pool teachers they don’t want only adds insult to injury. There certainly can be no educational benefit to having passed-over and poorly rated teachers in these schools. Studies show that when a student has one great teacher for even one year, she is more likely to attend college and earn more money than students with less effective teachers. This idea guided policy in the Bloomberg administration. And my experience as an educator certainly bears this out. When I was hired as the founding principal of Bronx Lab School in 2004, my first and most important task was to hire the best teachers I could find who were ready for the hardest job of their lives. Bronx Lab opened on the campus of Evander Childs High School, where, in 2005, less than 34 percent of students graduated, fewer applied to college and everyone — including the adults — felt unsafe. I knew I could, and would, make many mistakes as a school leader. But the one thing I had to get right was hiring a dedicated and motivated team of teachers. Together we created an environment where excellence — in both teaching and learning — was expected. Thanks to these tireless, talented educators, by 2008, 86 percent of Bronx Lab students graduated with more than 350 college acceptances and $2.5 million in financial aid in hand. These results, and results like it at scores of other New York schools where principals were empowered to hire dedicated professionals, would not have been possible had I been forced to dilute my team with the lowest-performing teachers from the reserve pool. Thousands of students would have been denied a high school diploma and a shot at career success. Other big cities, like Chicago and Washington, have set reasonable limits on the period of time that unplaced teachers can continue to draw a paycheck. But New York City does not, and an incredible 25 percent of reserve pool teachers have been getting paid for five years. The schools chancellor, Carmen Fariña, has previously stated that she would not impose forced hiring on schools. Indeed, as the principal of Public School 6 in Manhattan, Ms. Fariña replaced 80 percent of her staff, eventually turning the school into one of the best in the city. The interests of students should not be sacrificed for budgetary expedience or special interest politics. Parents should not accept either excuse, and elected officials who care about the city’s most vulnerable students should not sit by and allow this summer slide to stand.