At the heart of the American ideal of marriage lurks a potential conflict. We expect our spouse to make us feel loved and valued, while also expecting him or her to help us discover and actualize our best self — to spur us to become, as Tom Cruise’s titular character in “Jerry Maguire” puts it, “the me I’d always wanted to be.” The problem is that what helps us achieve one of these goals is often incompatible with what helps us achieve the other. To make us feel loved and valued, our spouse must convey appreciation for the person we currently are. To help us grow, he or she must emphasize the discrepancy between that person and the person we can ideally become, typically by casting a sober, critical eye on our faults. Americans didn’t always ask so much of their spouse. Until around 1850, the primary consideration for a successful marriage was practical: running a household that kept its residents fed and safe. Love was a luxury. After 1850, as urbanization afforded young people the freedom to make their own decisions, love increasingly became a necessity for a successful marriage. Today, we expect our spouse not only to make us feel loved, but also to be a kind of life coach. Is this a flawed ideal — or the miracle of matrimony? The answer is: It depends. The good news is that some marriages can do it all. My collaborators and I have found that affectionate partners can indeed play a critical role in determining each other’s success in reaching their goals. The bad news is that receiving such support can be brutal. As the psychologists Nickola Overall and James McNulty have shown, spouses who use oppositional, even aggressive methods to inspire each other’s pursuit of goals can increase their partners’ effort and success in the long run, but such methods cause distress in the short run. This shouldn’t come as a surprise. Achieving personal growth is an arduous process. A life characterized by the pursuit of self-actualization trades satiation and contentment for hunger and yearning. The path from the actual to the ideal self passes through anxiety, frustration and humiliation. It’s no different when our spouses are helping us get there. Consider the married couple Katinka Hosszu and Shane Tusup. Ms. Hosszu, an elite Hungarian swimmer, underperformed in the 2012 Olympics, going home without a medal. Soon thereafter, Mr. Tusup, then her boyfriend, became her coach. He was ferocious and uncompromising, possibly even inappropriately so. He would publicly upbraid her for subpar performances, sometimes throwing objects or kicking a wall to underscore his disappointment. In the 2016 Olympics, she won three golds and a silver. She largely credits his demanding tactics for her success. Ms. Hosszu and Mr. Tusup are an extreme case. But their dynamic points to a general truth: Helping a loved one achieve his or her goals can require criticism rather than warmth, harshness rather than comfort. It’s difficult to give complacency-shattering feedback while simultaneously making someone feel valued, loved and sexy. When Renée Zellweger’s character Dorothy Boyd pushes Jerry Maguire to excel, she doesn’t mince words: “Don’t make a joke of your life.” In the face of this truth — that the modern ideal of marriage is, though alluring, highly demanding — we have two options. The first is that we ask our partner to play only one of the two roles: either making us feel loved and valued for the person we currently are or making us feel motivated to grow into the person we can potentially become. Perhaps we’ll conclude that we would rather have a comfortable life than an ambitious one, or vice versa, and we can look to our spouse to help us achieve that type of life. Or perhaps we’ll decide that we want a life of both comfort and ambition, but that we’ll look to different people to help us achieve each of those goals. Maybe our spouse will make us feel loved and safe, but we’ll count on a close friend to help ensure that we never get so comfortable that we stop striving. Such a distribution of responsibility is sensible, because the skill set that makes somebody effective at nurturing us is often quite different from the skill set that makes somebody effective at motivating us. The second option is to go all in on the spouse-as-everything model, but to do so with eyes open. This option requires that the couple continually recalibrate their behavior, adopting tenderness or tough love as the situation requires. In “Jerry Maguire,” Dorothy follows up her admonition that Jerry not make a joke of his life with a warmhearted reminder of his core values and encouragement that he can live up to them. Such sensitive support requires not only strong compatibility but also significant attention and sensitivity. And with expectations so lofty, the risk of disappointment is high. As such, the second option isn’t for the weak of will. Indeed, the spouse-as-everything ideal is almost certainly one reason the average marriage has been getting a bit less satisfying in recent decades. But building this sort of marriage places within reach a level of conjugal fulfillment that was largely unavailable in earlier eras. For those couples who can pull it off, something extraordinary awaits.