We are raised not to take them seriously. It will turn at the last minute, there’s no reason to cancel school, this is just a way for supermarkets to make money: all things I’ve heard, and even said, growing up in Miami. We wait to put on the shutters until the last minute because it is a pain to take them off later, after the storm makes that last-minute turn. We don’t take them off, not all of them, and that one room in the house is dark for weeks, maybe months. We watch as the storm devastates the countries our families are from and maybe still live in, only to have ourselves — with all our unused resources — spared. On Wednesday, I read a tweet from a scientist with the National Hurricane Center saying that Hurricane Irma’s size and strength left him at “a complete and utter loss for words.” I lose my Miami-born-and-bred resolve and send frantic texts to my sister saying she should get out. She assures me that they are prepared, she just needs to pick up steak and baby yogurt for her 10-month-old. Last year, I missed her baby shower when the threat of a hurricane canceled my connecting flight into Miami. My family thought I should’ve gone for it, that the worst-case scenario was that I’d have to turn back in Atlanta. No, I said, the worst-case scenario is that I get stuck in Miami as a hurricane hits and I can’t get back to Nebraska, where I now live. This scenario didn’t register for them as a possibility. They said, It’s going to turn just as it always does. In that case, they were right. They’re still angry I missed the baby shower, that I didn’t make the airline fly me toward the storm. Hurricane Andrew, in 1992, did not turn. Our shutters went up at the last minute, my father putting them on only after having done the same at the houses of both sets of grandparents. None of us left because no one told us we needed to. We wouldn’t have anyway. My parents’ pride in our home meant they would go down with it. They didn’t want to go to a shelter — the local middle school — because, really, how bad could it be? It’s just rain and wind. We had plastic jugs of water. We’d filled up the bathtub, put the freezer on the highest setting. We were extra-prepared: My dad was an electrician, and so we even had a portable generator. We were north of the worst damage from that storm. Two weeks after school was supposed to have started, I walked into middle school for the first time to find our classes overflowing with kids from “down south,” as we said, kids from maybe 15 miles away. Their own schools were gone, and so they’d been reassigned to ours for the year, while theirs got rebuilt. These kids hated us and our teachers and our still-standing school buildings, and so we hated them back. We were all too young to understand the magnitude of what had been lost and so we took it out on one another. This was how we started sixth grade. Building codes changed after entire communities were blown away by Hurricane Andrew. We learned good lessons too late. My sister’s new home, purchased more than a year ago, came with impact windows, rated for up to 150 m.p.h. winds. For Irma, they aren’t putting up shutters; for now, they are banking on the storm losing strength as it approaches. So far, they aren’t leaving even though their neighbors plan to do so. They don’t want to go to my parents’ house because my parents’ house will be dark from the shutters they will put up, probably at the last minute. I watch from across the country as the storm strengthens. It doesn’t matter which way it turns — it will hit them. I send more frantic texts and am told I worry too much. I am far away, on a work trip to a liberal-arts college in Walla Walla, in eastern Washington State, the entire campus cloaked in thick smoke from raging wildfires to the west. We’ve been asked not to go outside, as the air is hazardous. We go outside anyway, as it’s time for a campus tour. I’m not taking the threat seriously; I’m just like my sister. With Irma, It’s not really coming has turned into It’s not going to be that bad. When I arrived in Walla Walla on Wednesday, I went to a rally in support of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, the reality of its end still sitting like ice inside me. People wear face masks or bandannas over their noses and mouths to protect themselves from the smoke. I have no such protection. I text my sister to start driving to Nebraska, that they can still make it with plenty of time. “Relax, don’t give in to panic,” she writes back 20 minutes later. The smoke in Washington will be here for a while; they get less rain here than they used to, people say. It’s hotter, too — good for the wine industry, I was told on a tour. A silver lining, the guide said, since it’s getting too hot for grapes in California now. I hear in that a different version of It’s not going to be that bad. At least it’s an acknowledgment of our new normal, this era brought on by the very denial that the storms were on their way. The very least we can do is accept that the storm is here. Accept that no matter how uncomfortable, it’s time we put on the face masks; no matter how dark, it’s time to put up the shutters. In fact, it’s already too late.