I’ve been studying Americans’ accelerating penchant for blending the fantastical into the real world — from Disneyland to reality TV, from themed restaurants to war re-enactments to ubiquitous porn to Burning Man. So I started seeing evidence of the phenomenon in some very unlikely places — such as the excessive police response to the protests in 2014 in Ferguson, Mo., where officers with AR-15s in Ballistic Engineered Armored Response Counter-Attack Trucks struck me as law enforcement doing war-fighting role play, cops playing soldiers on TV. After Ferguson showed Americans just how militarized our police have become, the Obama administration put restrictions on the federal program that had given police departments billions of dollars worth of military equipment. And I thought of the Ferguson spectacle again last week when Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that President Trump would be removing all those new limits on the handouts of military hardware. Mr. Trump, of course, is a stupendous embodiment of my theory of the merger of fantasy and reality. As a business hustler and entertainer, then as candidate and president, he peddles over-the-top make-believe from his branded cologne and “university” and Ceausescu-esque residences to his WWE appearances and “The Apprentice” to the tales about millions of illegal 2016 voters and his predecessor’s birthplace. And he has depicted American cities as centers of “carnage,” turned monstrous cops like Joe Arpaio into celebrities, told the very opposite of the truth — “the murder rate in our country is the highest it’s been in 47 years” — and encouraged the police to rough up suspects. Mr. Trump’s view of policing clearly derives from “Dirty Harry” fantasies, with he himself playing the beloved strongman commandant. Yet long before President Trump, the militarization of the police was being shaped by fantasy and entertainment, with roots in 1960s Los Angeles. In 1965, after a white cop arrested a black man he suspected of drunken driving in a predominantly black neighborhood, the Watts riots resulted. Thousands of National Guard forces and policemen swarmed neighborhoods in South Los Angeles. It resembled the escalating and televised war in Vietnam. A Los Angeles inspector, Daryl Gates, was persuaded that the department needed its own special-ops corps, with military equipment and outfits, so that cops could look and act like soldiers. He wanted to call the new units Special Weapons Attack Teams: SWAT. (He changed the name to Special Weapons and Tactics). This first SWAT trained on a Universal back lot, the same place “Adam-12” was about to enact its televised Los Angeles Police Department fictions. After SWAT showed up in 1974 at a Los Angeles hide-out of the Symbionese Liberation Army, firing tear gas and thousands of rounds, all of it broadcast live on TV, the SWAT concept was ready for prime time. Literally: ABC started a dramatic series, “S.W.A.T.” The show was an immediate hit, and encouraged police departments all over the United States to create their own special forces and acquire all that cool military gear. “Some departments caught onto the idea” of SWAT teams, The New York Times reported in 1975, “after watching the televised shootout between Los Angeles Police Department SWAT” and the S.L.A. Now, a year later, the article continued, “some departments have been stimulated into adopting a SWAT strategy by the weekly network television program that erroneously depicts SWAT teams getting involved in almost every phase of police operations.” Before long, life imitated erroneous art, and SWAT teams were involved in almost every phase of police operations. The series didn’t last long. “ ‘S.W.A.T.’ was a very difficult show to find stories for,” its producer Aaron Spelling, once explained. “How many times can you have bad guys kidnap somebody and need to call the S.W.A.T. team?” In the real world, however, that turned out not to be a problem, with crimes like poker games and underage drinking making the cut for militarized intervention. SWAT raids in the United States increased tenfold in a decade, and then over the next two decades almost doubled, to about 1,000 a week. It was in the 1990s that the federal government began supplying the police with surplus military helicopters, armored troop carriers, semiautomatic rifles and the rest. It didn’t strike most people as fantastical as it was happening, that policemen were now like war re-enactors and extreme cosplayers in armored military vehicles. It was fun for officers and fun for the pork-barreling federal and local politicians and bureaucrats to give and get all that amazing gear — absent the federal largess, departments couldn’t have afforded it. Back in the 1980s, most police departments still didn’t have SWAT teams; by the turn of the century, 90 percent of America’s cities with over 50,000 people did. Hollywood depictions of policemen acting like soldiers aren’t the only reason departments militarized, of course. But why do campus cops need M-16s? Why are SWAT teams almost entirely occupied with executing search warrants? And why in the rest of the developed world are SWAT forces national units rarely used for routine operations? Because Americans love making their fantasies as realistic as possible — Old West lawmen, postmodern commandos, take your pick. And soon we’ll have a fresh Hollywood template to glamorize militarized policing: In November a reboot of “S.W.A.T.” set in Los Angeles will debut on CBS. It’s not only police militarization where Americans’ pervasive real-world play acting has been weaponized. I think, for instance, of the costumed and armed racists with torches and Nazi flags in Charlottesville, Va., last month. There is a synergy among our multiplying fantasies, the ones we know to be fiction, the ones we kind of sort of believe, and the ones — like imagining that policing is the same as fighting wars — we’re convinced aren’t fantasies at all.