OAKLAND, Calif. — This was the summer that the forests turned red. From the fir and hemlock stands of Puget Sound to the oak and pine groves of California, the light in the woods has gone all kinds of wrong. The greens have been replaced by oranges, the normal hues vaporized in the smoke that has choked so much of the West in this season of wildfire. The West, of course, is no stranger to fire. Natives and newcomers alike grow accustomed to our annual apocalypse of flame. While this fire season is no doubt bad — more than 80 big burns now burning from Montana to Southern California, while the August conflagrations that swept British Columbia were the province’s worst fires on record — we’re still unlikely to surpass the record fires of 2015, when more than 10 million acres burned. What has made this fire season so terrifying isn’t the size or intensity of the fires, awful as they were, but the enormous clouds of smoke that have come with them. In many places, for days on end the sky has been enveloped in haze, the sun reduced to a hot, distant penny. The smoke screens that have hit Seattle, San Francisco, Denver, Portland, Ore., and most of Montana are a product of the same enormous high-pressure system that incited a historic heat wave earlier in the summer. The heat contributes to the fires, then the smoke gets trapped. The West Coast’s natural air-conditioning of Pacific Ocean wind hasn’t been able to blow the smoke away. And now there’s ash coating Portland. The smoke makes the very air we breathe toxic. At one point last month, the air quality in the Seattle region was likened to that of Beijing at its worst, a threat to the old and the young, and those with respiratory problems. Also terrifying is how the smoke has twisted the light. With the ordinary palette of the world turned upside down, the familiar has become disorienting. Usual comforts seem unsettling and uncanny. Normally I go to the woods for retreat, for contemplation and invigoration. But the forest has become alien with all of the smoke. In the Pacific Northwest during the zenith of the British Columbia fires, it was as if a cinematographer had put a red lens on the camera. The evergreens went matte, while the rust-colored trunks of madrone trees were poppingly visible from hundreds of yards away. The cedar trunks were nearly pulsating with color. In Northern California during the Labor Day heat wave, the woods were changed, too. The patches of sun on a trail at midmorning had the pastel cast of evening. The natural detritus of the California woods — old bay and willow leaves, spent bracken and downed logs — looked ominous in the orange light. Friends in Montana report that the haze and the smoke remind them of the recent solar eclipse. Shadows go fuzzy, similar to how it was when the sun was at 25 percent of normal. Everyone seems to agree that the sunsets have been epic, but that the moons are spooky: heavy peach globes, weirdly portentous. One summer night in Washington, I saw a waxing crescent moon stained a red darker than blood. It’s hard not to think that these alterations are just a glimpse of things to come. Perhaps this is the new normal of climate change. With all the dust and smoke in the air, the world will begin to look different. The sky will be milkier, less often intensely blue. Every sunset will be hot pink and hallucinogenic. The green trees of the forest will be cast under a rose lamp. The transformation of familiar sites is bound to take a psychic toll. In 1893, the Norwegian artist Edvard Munch completed his most famous painting, “The Scream,” with its haunting vibe of existential dread. The nightmare image, with its swirls of deep reds and blues, was inspired by Munch’s experience, a decade earlier, of witnessing an unearthly sunset, created in part by airborne particulates emitted by the eruption of the Indonesian volcano Krakatau, on the other side of the planet. All of the ash from the volcano scattered the blue-violet wavelengths of light, just as the smoke blanketing the West is doing now. At the sight of ruptured sky, Munch said he felt “a great, unending scream piercing through nature.” That’s a pretty good description of what these smoke storms have felt like. Maybe the strange, never-before-seen landscapes of our hot, hazy century will make for some incredible art. But like Munch, I also worry that it will bring us something much darker, more forlorn. Not for nothing did he title one study for his painting “Despair.”