ABBEVILLE, S.C. — In September 1984, my wife, Susan, and I left Fairfield, Conn., our home for 43 years, and drove south. We’d had enough of New England winters. We stopped 23 hours later in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., rented a 450-square-foot apartment on the Intracoastal Waterway a mile from the beach, and began our new life in “paradise.” Our lives revolved around the sun and the beach during the day after work, and the bars, restaurants and clubs at night. The only downside to paradise was the influx of 375,000 crazed spring breakers from December to Easter, and the occasional hurricane from June to November, which frightened us less than did those drunken college kids diving off the balconies of motels into swimming pools, which, on occasion, they missed. We felt we had nothing to fear from hurricanes because we had nothing to lose — just a rented apartment, a few sticks of thrift-store furniture and our rusted-out 1974 Alfa Romeo sedan. When a hurricane approached, we went to the beach to watch the grayish-blue squalls swirling toward us low over the ocean. When the winds got so strong they blew us off our feet, we hustled across the street to wait out the storm in a bar. In those days, every bar had a “hurricane party.” Then our lives changed. We got a dog and a parrot in the late ’80s. Then more dogs. We were responsible for other lives now. We didn’t go out much to bars anymore, especially during hurricanes. We stayed in our apartment to comfort our terrified pets as the wind rattled our sliding glass doors close to the waterway. By 1992, we had six shiba inu dogs and other “things of value” we had to protect: a new car and a small wood-framed bungalow, built in 1926. A week after we signed the contract for the house we watched the Weather Channel in horror as Hurricane Andrew began its long, methodical slog across the Atlantic toward Fort Lauderdale. We woke each morning at 4 a.m. for days watching the storm’s track, hoping for a shift, but it was not to be. The day before Andrew was to hit us, we threw our clothes in our car, four dogs in the back seat, two dogs in front — one on Susie’s lap, the other on the floor between her legs — and our parrot in a carrying case wedged between the front seats. Then we drove north. When we reached Gainesville, Fla., we found a motel room off I-75. On a little piece of grass outside, other dog owners walked every kind of dog imaginable. This was our first hurricane lesson: In paradise, the most precious possessions of so many residents were their pets, which had replaced the family they had left behind in the North. After Andrew had passed through, we drove back home. Trees were down, water had sloshed up off the canal, but essentially paradise was intact. Our bungalow was untouched. Why not? It had survived 66 years of hurricanes. Over the next 13 years, we became hurricane veterans. We learned the drill. We watched the Weather Channel throughout the day and night from June to November. We learned how to read the hurricanes, to separate the ones that were forecasters’ hype from ones that were serious threats. We had heavy-duty plywood shutters built for our windows. We had a reliable store of batteries and flashlights, battery-powered hurricane lamps, a battery-operated radio, gallons of water, cans and boxes of food that would keep. And bottles of vodka, for Susie, and bourbon for me. Lots of it. The best way to get through a hurricane thrashing against your house is to drink your way through it, wake the next day with a headache to see the wind gone. At first, we bought our supplies three and four days before a hurricane hit. Then we refined our strategy to a day or two. I filled the bathtub with water we could use in the toilet when we lost power. I cleaned and oiled our 9-millimeter pistols, then loaded them. In 2004, three hurricanes hit us in the space of six weeks, Charley, Frances and Jean. They each lingered off shore, one after the other, blowing at us for weeks as we sat in darkness. We were in our mid-60s when Wilma hit in 2005. Wilma was a beast, its force like a herd of dinosaurs thundering past our shuttered windows. It was the first time we were ever scared for our lives in a hurricane. Susie held our oldest dog, Kiri, who was shivering from fear. Wilma lingered from the early morning until noon when, suddenly, it was gone. The sun came out. We ventured outside like cave dwellers into sunlight, blinking our eyes. All our neighbors were outside, too, sawing fallen limbs, heaping trash and broken objects on the swale. Paradise was never the same for us again. Our beloved Kiri died three weeks after Wilma. We put our house up for sale in 2008, and in March 2009, we moved into our current house, a big, old Victorian on a hill here in Abbeville, S.C. Our real estate broker told us we would never have to worry about hurricanes again. “Abbeville doesn’t get weather,” she said. “The only weather we ever got was a tornado in ’73.” One night a few days after we arrived, Susie and the dogs were sleeping while I watched a movie on TV. A narrow banner of letters rolled across the top of the screen: “Tornado warning for Abbeville County.” Three minutes later all hell broke loose. A fierce wind rattled our old windows, and I heard the cracking of tree limbs and then their thunderous crashes to earth. In minutes the tornado was gone and everything was still again. My wife and the dogs slept through it. That was the only weather we’ve ever had in Abbeville for the eight years we’ve lived here. Until today, of course, with Irma bearing up on us, from Florida. We’re two old people now, with a sense of mortality we lacked when we arrived in Florida three decades ago, oblivious to the effect hurricanes could have on people’s lives.