In September 2015, amid the Republican Party’s fervid primary campaign, Ben Carson briefly outshone Donald Trump for nuttiness. The retired neurosurgeon (now the secretary of housing and urban development) declared in an interview that a Muslim should never be placed “in charge of this nation.” Liberals were horrified, and rightly so. Yet today liberals have their own tolerance blind spot, and Christians are most likely to get caught in it. Witness last week’s Senate confirmation hearing for Amy Coney Barrett, a law professor at Notre Dame whom President Trump has nominated to serve on the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals. Going far beyond questions of legal philosophy and qualification, several Democratic lawmakers interrogated Ms. Barrett about her devout Catholicism, suggesting that her faith would impede her ability to serve as a judge. “Do you consider yourself an ‘orthodox Catholic’?” asked Dick Durbin of Illinois, himself a Catholic, taking issue with Ms. Barrett’s use of that term to describe those who strive to align their lives fully with the Church’s teachings. Mazie Hirono of Hawaii darkly insinuated that Ms. Barrett would apply Catholic morality to decide cases. But Dianne Feinstein of California took things furthest. “Dogma and law are two different things,” she said. “And I think whatever a religion is, it has its own dogma. The law is totally different. And I think in your case, professor, when you read your speeches, the conclusion one draws is that the dogma lives loudly within you, and that’s of concern.” The notion that Catholics are so beholden to Rome as to be incapable of rendering independent judgment in public office has a long, sordid history. It was a mainstay of 19th-century nativist propaganda, and it would dog John F. Kennedy in the following century. Senator Feinstein later denied exhibiting anti-Catholic bias. But as with other forms of racial or religious animus, one needn’t always use an explicit epithet to arouse ugly emotions. Worse, these accusations were based on a mangled understanding of Ms. Barrett’s work. In a 1998 essay that has been seized on by left-wing activists, Ms. Barrett and a co-author addressed how Catholic judges might deal with capital cases, given the church’s opposition to the death penalty in virtually all situations. The same dilemma confronts liberal Protestants and many Jews, the authors noted. It could even trouble an atheist judge whose conscience tells her that capital punishment is wrong. The authors concluded that recusal rules provide a way out, and they examined when and under what conditions judges should take advantage of them. But they concluded that “judges cannot — nor should they try to — align our legal system with the Church’s moral teaching whenever the two diverge.” The Senate wasn’t dealing with a fanatic or theocrat in Ms. Barrett. The episode was symptomatic of a repressive turn among Western liberals. Earlier this year, Senator Bernie Sanders railed against Russell Vought, whom President Trump has nominated as the deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget and who had once written that Muslims “stand condemned” for rejecting Jesus. This was indeed a crude way of putting Christian doctrine. It wouldn’t have been unreasonable for lawmakers to press Mr. Vought to ensure that he wouldn’t discriminate against Muslims while serving in government. But were Mr. Vought’s comments disqualifying, as Senator Sanders argued? Taken to its logical conclusion, that would mean any strong expression of theological conviction is unwelcome in the public square. Orthodox Muslims — who hold the Quran to be God’s final and fullest revelation, superseding Mosaic law and Christianity — wouldn’t fare any better under the Sanders rule, if it were applied uniformly. Similar sentiments are gathering strength in Britain, where I live. This week Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Catholic and a Tory member of Parliament, faced a torrent of abuse in the media — he was called a “bigot” and a “reactionary” — for explaining his anti-abortion views and opposition to same-sex marriage in a TV interview. A cartoon in The Times of London portrayed him as a man-fetus in utero, lamenting how his party-leadership hopes had been “terminated.” In June, Britain’s Liberal Democrats ousted their leader, Tim Farron, an evangelical Christian, over his personal views on homosexuality and abortion. This, even though as a matter of public policy, Mr. Farron supported abortion rights and gay marriage. As a classical liberal and a recent convert to Catholicism, I find all of this deeply dismaying. Long before I started on my journey to Rome, I believed in the promise of the free society — a system in which liberty and tradition could contend without either one trying to destroy the other. One could be fully a believer and fully invested in a liberal constitutional order. But for some progressives, it isn’t enough to have won most of the cultural and policy battles of the past several decades. Even the remnants of the other side, in people’s minds and consciences, must submit to maximalist progressive claims. It won’t happen, and the desire to do so isn’t actually liberal. It is, well, dogmatic. Not all dogmas involve Almighty God.