Gail Collins: Welcome back, Bret. It’s been ages since we conversed and, um, a lot has happened. Tell me your choice for the worst news and the best news of the summer. Bret Stephens: There’s so much competition in the worst news department and so little choice in the best news one. In the former category we’ve got killer hurricanes, thermonuclear Kim, the shameful DACA decision. In the latter category — can I get back to you on that one? Gail: Yeah, it’s been a tough stretch. All I wanted to do some days was get through the news and just go home and watch something cheery on TV. Although now that I think of it, my favorite series this summer was about a murder in a remote part of Iceland in the middle of winter. I can’t choose among all the natural and man-made disasters, but policy-wise, my worst news was the reports about the government’s war against climate change research. Best news was the crushing defeat of Obamacare repeal. Which was nearly as dramatic as that Iceland series. Bret: Evil climate-change agnostic that I am, I think the appropriate way to deal with scientific uncertainty is more, not less, scientific research. If Harvey and Irma have a silver lining, my wish would be dramatic increases in the budgets of NOAA, NASA, the National Science Foundation and every other government agency engaged in doing or funding fundamental research. Gail: We return and we agree! Go on. Bret: Obamacare repeal? Well, the tragedy for conservatives is that the G.O.P. couldn’t offer a plausible alternative to it after seven straight years of denouncing it. I wasn’t at all sorry to see the final repeal effort fail, and I was thrilled that it was left to John McCain to cast the deciding vote. Too bad he didn’t get elected president in 2008: We’d be in nothing like the mess we’re in now. Speaking of which, I derived a perverse pleasure in watching President Trump side with Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer over Paul Ryan and Mitch McConnell on the debt ceiling issue. Not because I think the Democrats are right on the policy merits, but because it’s so delightful to watch guys like Ryan get burned by the very president with whom they’ve tried to walk so fine a line. Same with Gary Cohn reportedly being taken out of the running to replace Janet Yellen at the Fed because he revealed his displeasure about the president’s comments in the wake of the violence in Charlottesville. “He that lies down with dogs shall rise up with fleas.” Ben Franklin wrote that. But Republicans still don’t learn. Gail: On behalf of all the dogs of America, I have to protest their being compared to Donald Trump. But I’m interested in your glee at the torturing of Paul Ryan. Weren’t you a big fan? I thought he was the guy who made thoughtful conservatives go all swoony. Is it over? Bret: Ryan is a genuinely smart, genuinely decent, genuinely public-spirited guy with, as it turns out, one small flaw: no backbone. He had opportunity after opportunity to separate the Republican brand from Trump. And he skipped it every time, as if he owed some kind of loyalty to a man who exhibits no loyalty toward anyone. I particularly disliked the ways in which he would denounce Trump’s comments on, say, “Mexican” Judge Gonzalo Curiel as the textbook definition of a racist comment, and then simply move on as if he could still do business with the candidate. “Hate the sin not the sinner,” goes the old saying. But Ryan forgot that the sinner also hated him, and most of the rest of us, too. Gail: Well, I’ve got to admit Ryan is suffering for his choices, hehehehe. Do you think he’ll be able to keep his job? Not that I understand why anybody would want it. Bret: He didn’t want his own job. It was more or less forced on him after the G.O.P.’s Kamikaze Caucus — sorry, I meant Freedom Caucus — ran the entirely normal and competent John Boehner into retirement. I know there’s a school of thought that Ryan has been strengthened by Trump’s decision to side with Democrats over the debt ceiling. But I just don’t see how he lasts. As David Brooks wrote the other day, the Republican Party is a house divided against itself. And it is divided not just two ways — radicals versus pragmatists — but both groups versus Trump. Question for you: Does this conservative implosion please or frighten you? Gail: I have a bad character so I’ve really been enjoying it. The Republicans created their own monster when they gerrymandered so many Congressional districts to make it impossible for Democrats to compete. So the big fear became a primary from the right, and you have a lot of people in that caucus now who are just completely nuts. The kind of people who vote against disaster aid when their state is under water. And it does feel as if the party is splitting in half. Bret: I should be happier about it, since the Republican crackup vindicates what I was warning my conservative friends about last year as they became Trumpistas — namely, that he would destroy the party and that a Hillary Clinton presidency was our only possible salvation. Gail: Sorry about that last part. Bret: But democracy suffers without an intellectually coherent and morally serious right-of-center party. Better Chirac than Le Pen. Better McCain than Trump. Better a G.O.P. program based on low taxes, less government regulation and muscular international engagement than hatred of immigrants, opposition to trade and isolationism. I’m wondering if Democrats will be able to rise to the occasion by scooping up moderate Republicans with a return to the New Democrat-style politics of the 1990s. Or does the party keep slouching toward Bernie Sanders-ism? Gail: The Democrats were two parties back in the day when the South was Democratic and you had a whole passel of conservative segregationists clumped together with northern and western liberals. Now the Republicans are divided between populists from the social right and the traditional economic conservatives. In both cases you had a party stuck with a large number of people whose deepest convictions involved some variation on racism. So I think the Republicans are currently doomed in a way the Democrats aren’t. Bret: Democrats survived because the Truman-Johnson wing of the party prevailed over the Thurmond-Wallace wing. It maintained moral integrity. Republicans may not survive because the Buchanan-Trump wing has prevailed over Reagan-Bush. It lost moral integrity. That’s the meaning of Trump’s Charlottesville moment. And I don’t think that changes even if, or rather when, Trump fully implodes. Gail: There’s got to be a split of some kind. The Democrats may be having a center-left battle, but there is wide agreement on important goals, like a tax system that directs more money to lower-income workers. And the disagreements aren’t the kind that break up a party. The main problem with Bernie Sanders as a presidential candidate was that he only had that one speech. There are about 100 Democrats positioning themselves for a run in 2020, and I have faith that they’ll do better. Bret: I’m not so sure the Democrats can pick up the pieces. The Georgia special election last spring is a reminder of how feeble the Democratic brand remains in voters’ eyes even now. Gail: Yeah, I can’t argue that the Democrats have a rip-roaring call to battle at the moment. Hoping a few of the 100 presidential hopefuls will come up with the right message. Bret: Incidentally, I don’t think Hillary Clinton’s new book is going to help any. How do you expect that to play? Gail: I don’t think it’ll hurt. I don’t think anybody will remember it over the long run. She has a lot of fans, but I’m not sure even all of them are in the mood to relive 2016 right now. Any reading suggestions for the fall season? I liked Al Franken’s book. It had the advantage of not making you want to slit your wrists. Bret: Lots of suggestions, none of them contemporary. I’ve spent the last year or so reading or rereading Hannah Arendt, Eric Hoffer, Czeslaw Milosz and Karl Popper. We need to remind ourselves how (and why) people fall for populism and authoritarianism. As Arendt wrote: “The sad truth is that most evil is done by people who never made up their minds to be good or evil.” Timeless is always timeless, never more so than when the world is going to hell.