Nineteen sixty-seven may have been a brutal year in Vietnam — tens of thousands of Vietnamese and more than 11,000 Americans lost their lives in what increasingly looked like an endless war — but it was also, the United Nations decreed more hopefully, International Tourist Year. The National Tourist Office of the Republic of Vietnam — yes, the American-backed South Vietnamese government maintained a tourism office during the war — issued a cheerful guidebook touting the conflict-ravaged country as an enticing destination. With its sophisticated mountain resorts, fine white beaches, extensive hunting reserves and numerous other attractions, Vietnam was “rapidly becoming a ‘must see’ for thousands of foreign tourists,” it maintained. The claim was, of course, ludicrous. Few tourists were making the trip to Vietnam by 1967, and those who did largely stuck to the capital. “It’s rather risky to go far from Saigon,” the chief tourism official conceded that spring. Yet the guidebook’s publication, as bizarre as it may seem, reminds us of the extent to which tourism was about far more than travel. For both the Republic of Vietnam and the United States, tourism contained an important political dimension. There was a time, in the late 1950s and early ’60s, when Vietnam did attract thousands of pleasure-seeking visitors. Holiday magazine profiled the country in 1957, and Travel magazine did a piece on Vietnam’s “spectacular” sites two years later. By the early 1960s, South Vietnam was enjoying tens of thousands of foreign visitors. This was great news for both Washington and Saigon. Advertisement Not only would tourism promote the economic development and foreign-currency earnings that were so crucial to the South Vietnamese nation-building project, but, officials hoped, it also could generate positive views of the Republic of Vietnam and its contribution to Washington’s Cold War mission. This was true of both the in-country experiences of foreign tourists as well as the ideologically inflected literature they relied on to mediate their travel. In the years following the 1954 Geneva Accords that temporarily divided Vietnam, the South Vietnamese authorities, using tourism as one of the tools in their soft-power arsenal, attempted to overcome the crisis of legitimacy that imperiled their fledgling state. The republic’s first president, Ngo Dinh Diem, was deeply unpopular, but both independent and government-produced tourism publications overlooked his political shortcomings in favor of a Cold War narrative that portrayed Diem as an effective nation-builder and one of the free world’s greatest assets. The Communist hordes in Vietnam, one American guidebook insisted, sought nothing less than “to enslave the entire population.” Fortunately, Diem — “a man of great vigor, vision and iron will” — was there to stop them, “Olson’s Orient Guide” continued. The tourism publications of the 1950s and ’60s consistently touted the American-backed government’s alleged democratic credentials while delegitimizing the Vietnamese revolution as naked Communist aggression. The southern republic was thus “Free Vietnam,” according to Travel magazine. The Democratic Republic of Vietnam, conversely, was the “Communist-dominated” or “Communist-held North.” This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. None of this is particularly surprising in the context of Cold War ideology. But it underscores a largely overlooked facet of the Vietnam War: Tourism and its attendant literature played a surprising yet significant role in wartime propaganda. Not only did this literature frame the political unrest in the South for travelers hungry for information, but it was also disseminated outside Southeast Asia. The “Guide to Viet-Nam” published by South Vietnam’s Washington embassy, for example, was ostensibly created for tourists and, generously sprinkled with attractive photographs, included all sorts of information on the points of interest, festivals and Vietnamese culture certain to appeal to foreign visitors. Yet the 40-page guide, which touted the “free democratic system in the South” and the instrumental role it played in “the ideological contest between the Communist and the Free Worlds,” was also distributed to hundreds of American schoolteachers for use in their classrooms. The growing importance of tourism publications was consistent with the diplomatic significance the United States attached to international travel in the 1950s, as the jet age and the growth of the middle class enabled hundreds of thousands of Americans to begin venturing abroad. Most of them knew little of the political complexities and nuances of decolonization, making the travel literature on which they relied that much more important. It would explain the world they were seeing and experiencing. For most tourist publications, the leftist revolutions springing up in Asia, Africa and Latin America became instances of Communist subversion, and Communism, Americans were told, required a “free world” response. The growth of international travel in the 1950s also meant ideologically preparing Americans to serve as unofficial ambassadors for their nation. The Eisenhower administration underscored this obligation by issuing a presidential letter to all American passport holders in 1957. It stressed tourists’ role in helping to “mold the reputation of our country,” bringing “assurance to the people you meet that the United States is a friendly nation and one dedicated to the search for world peace and to the promotion of the well-being and security of the community of nations.” But tourism did not benefit only Washington. For the government in Saigon, the positive experiences of American tourists and the stories they subsequently told about their visits could be a diplomatic boon. As a motto of the National Tourist Office put it, tourism would “make the country better known and thus better loved.” Advertisement For a time, things seemed to go as planned. The American actor George C. Scott, for example, went to Vietnam in 1965 and meditated on his experience in Esquire magazine. “Whether we like it or not, we are and have been for years at war with International Communism,” he wrote. “The Vietnamese conflict is a unique and necessary phase of that larger war, the consequences of which may not be sidestepped, or shirked, or diplomatized under a polished table.” The Follett family of Oak Park, Ill., made the trip the following year. “We came because we wanted to see what was happening in Vietnam ourselves,” Dwight Follett told Saturday Review. “In the United States, everything we read is either black or white.” His assessment? “I’m coming out of this more a hawk than a dove. We must help these people.” By 1967, with the war’s continuing escalation, the flow of tourists into the country, already seriously diminished, had nearly dried up. The publisher Fodor’s, whose annual guidebooks proved some of the most popular of the mid-20th century, explained why. After offering tepid encouragement about seeing Vietnam through 1966, its 1967 prognosis was grim: “This divided nation, torn by war for twenty years, is the most dangerous country in the world for today’s visitor.” Its advice? “Don’t ever yield to the temptation” to go. Most didn’t. More than 34,000 foreign civilians did arrive in Vietnam in 1967, but they were almost exclusively businesspeople, journalists, contractors and government officials. Actual sightseers numbered, at most, in the low hundreds. And they largely remained in Saigon. This was quite a departure from the early years of the nation-building project. As the 1960s folded into the 1970s, things only got worse. The ideological appeal of tourism seemed a thing of the past. Indeed, by 1973, the year the last American combat forces withdrew, the director of the National Tourist Office took to openly encouraging the prostitution of Vietnamese women. “Soon I will send up a proposal for ‘sex tourism,’ ” he told an American reporter. “Many people want to visit Vietnam not to see the mountains or the shopping but to try, just once, our girls.” This was the moral abyss into which Vietnamese tourism, like the American war it served, had sunk. It’s little wonder that the revolution prevailed. Scott Laderman is a professor of history at the University of Minnesota, Duluth, and the author of “Tours of Vietnam: War, Travel Guides, and Memory.” Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 