Back when identity theft was mainly credit card fraud and a 100,000-record leak was a big deal — the good old days, around 2004 — my hacker friends and I would sit around and brainstorm ways to slow down what some were calling the fastest-growing crime of the century. One method came up again and again: Someone should steal the entire database of Social Security numbers and publish it online. (No one tried — that would be a crime!) Why do something so crazy? Once and for all, it would eliminate the fantasy that a Social Security number is both a unique identifier and a secret to be used as an authenticator. Consumers are asked for their Social Security number perhaps dozens of times each year: by banks, by utility companies, by their health care providers, by government agencies, even by websites. Every time the number is given, the odds go up that it will fall into the wrong hands. Still, America’s identification system relies on the fantasy that these nine digits are a secret. Publication of the full Social Security number list would shatter that fantasy and force the banking industry to invent new and genuinely effective ways to protect consumers from identity thieves. It seems that has finally occurred. The Equifax credit-reporting agency is being terribly, dangerously vague about its stunning loss of “potentially” 143 million Social Security numbers. The data belong to roughly three-quarters of Americans with a credit report. Might as well be everyone. Whatever the company finally admits to, this much is certain: Social Security numbers are no longer a secret. These numbers were created for a single purpose: to track worker contributions to a national retirement fund. Until the 1970s, the cards even arrived printed with the warning “Not for identification.” It’s time we heeded that warning and stopped using the number for applications of any kind. For loans, for jobs, for cellphones. It’s going to be very expensive, but the jig is up. Identity theft is an unfair shifting of costs. It has always been cheaper to avoid investment in security upgrades and instead push the real costs of this system onto victims, who spend hours cleaning up the messes left behind. They sometimes even pay a monthly fee for protection from a system they never asked to be a part of in the first place. This fragile authentication arrangement based on Social Security numbers persists so that retailers and banks can offer easy credit. Walk in with a number and a name, walk out with a new TV and a credit card. As long as a credit score attached to the Social Security number listed on the application is high enough, many creditors are more than happy to make that snap decision and take the risk. Sometimes the name doesn’t even have to match. That’s why the former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan once lamented that “children, dogs, cats and moose are getting credit cards.” And if a few consumers end up with ruined credit or paperwork headaches or, in extreme cases, losing their jobs or getting arrested — well, that’s just the cost of doing business. Some security tools have made their way into the system. Companies use big data, examining public records or other background sources to see whether the address on an application matches, if the name and age make sense, and even if a particular Social Security number is making the rounds among thieves. Despite these tools, the overall incidence of identity theft hit a record high last year, according to Javelin Strategy and Research. New-account fraud, perhaps the worst kind, spiked 20 percent last year, the firm said. It doesn’t have to be this way. You might recall that until recently, United States-based credit cards were protected only by 1960s-era magnetic stripe technology. We were at least a decade behind Europeans, who enjoyed added security from chip-enabled cards. Retailers and banks delayed and delayed, playing a game of chicken over who would pay for the costs. Then the 2013  Target data breach took place, and now we insert instead of swipe. Results have been mixed, but at least one kind of credit card fraud, card cloning, has significantly decreased. The Equifax hack could be another Target moment. It should spur industry into action and upgrade. No single technology is going to replace Social Security numbers as an identifier and a secret, and that’s a good thing. There is security in diversity. Two-factor authentication, available from many banks, should be required for new credit. The credit bureaus themselves could develop new unique IDs for us, to be used only for credit purposes. Biometrics can be used by employers and government agencies that require high levels of security. Social Security numbers were never designed to be a security tool, and their usefulness for that purpose has run its course. Just publish the whole list and be done with it. Then get on to the business of keeping our secrets a secret.