It has been a while since an appellate-court nomination generated as much noise as last week’s hearing for Amy Coney Barrett, a law professor at Notre Dame and a nominee to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. During the hearing, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, pressed Ms. Barrett, who is a devout Catholic, on the relationship between faith and judicial duty, which the professor had once addressed in a law review article. In that piece, she argued that there may be occasions, such as in death penalty cases, where a judge might have to recuse herself because of a conflict between her religious beliefs and her responsibilities as a judge.  Senator Feinstein asked Ms. Barrett about her views, and then made the following statement: “Whatever a religion is, it has its own dogma. The law is totally different. And I think in your case, professor, when you read your speeches, the conclusion one draws is that the dogma lives loudly within you, and that’s of concern when you come to big issues that large numbers of people have fought for for years in this country.” Other Democratic senators also expressed similar ideas in their own questions and statements. The reaction was swift and ruthless. Noah Feldman of Harvard Law School called on the senator to apologize because the “thrust of Feinstein’s questioning was that, as a believing Catholic, Barrett couldn’t be trusted to apply the Constitution and laws objectively.” Other commentators, such as Christopher L. Eisgruber, the president of Princeton, argued that Ms. Feinstein’s comments amounted to a religious test for office. The reaction to Ms. Feinstein’s comments is understandable, but overblown. She is surely guilty of poor word choice: As Mr. Feldman noted, the term “dogma” has an ugly historical context, often used by 19th-century Protestants to express anti-Catholic bigotry. But that is an objection more to style than to substance. And on the substance, asking a nominee about her strong faith, and whether she can put her religious views aside when deciding cases that implicate those views, is nowhere close to imposing a religious test for office. Senator Feinstein was not suggesting that Catholics shouldn’t be judges. She was asking whether someone of deep faith and who had previously openly (and in our opinion eloquently) written about the relationship between judging and faith could cast aside her deeply held views when judging. Had Ms. Barrett said that her faith would in fact deeply influence her judging, would the question have been deemed so wrong? We think not. Likewise, if senators had asked Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg during her confirmation hearing if her long history litigating claims of gender discrimination would influence her judging, or if they had asked Chief Justice John Roberts whether his time working in the Bush administration would affect his decision making, no one would have blinked. Judges regularly decide difficult legal issues in which the law at issue is unclear. In those open spaces, a judge’s personal values and life experiences will inevitably play a role in the outcome of the case. Given that Ms. Barrett had previously explored the relationship between her deeply held religious views and judging, Ms. Feinstein acted well within the bounds of fair questioning to probe deeply on this question. Moreover, the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment, which forbids government from making any law “respecting an establishment of religion,” plays a special role in this context. The potential impact of religious belief on government officials, including judges, is a matter of special concern in a nation dedicated to the separation of church and state, especially on such fundamental issues as abortion, gay rights and capital punishment. As Ms. Barrett thoughtfully observed in her 1998 law review article on this subject, “Catholic judges must answer some complex moral and legal questions in deciding whether to sit in death penalty cases.” Judges, she wrote, “cannot — nor should they try to — align our legal system with the church’s moral teaching whenever the two diverge.” It was this issue that Senator Feinstein was asking about, and in light of the fact that Ms. Barrett has both written and spoken on this dilemma, it was perfectly appropriate for members of the Senate Judiciary Committee to explore this issue with her. In no way was this a “religious test” for office or an expression of anti-Catholic bigotry. It was a sensible effort to explore how Ms. Barrett would handle the “complex moral and legal question” that she herself had sensibly brought to the fore.