This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Bernie Sanders’s biggest ally in his push for single-payer health insurance may well be the Republican Party. Yes, Republicans criticized and mocked the “Medicare for all” bill that Sanders released yesterday, and I doubt any Congressional Republicans will support the bill in the foreseeable future. But I do think they are unwittingly helping his cause. There are two main alternatives to an expansion of government-provided health insurance. One is to argue that it’s fine if millions of Americans go without insurance. I don’t see many politicians willing to make this case affirmatively (even those who vote for bills that would take insurance away). The second alternative is to strengthen private insurance markets, so that they’re covering more people and holding costs. Yet the Trump administration and many other Republicans — both governors and members of Congress — are now doing the opposite. They’re sabotaging the private insurance markets created by Obamacare. If those markets fail, it will leave many Americans who don’t get insurance through their job without coverage. The weaker private markets become, the more political momentum government-provided insurance will have. Some Democrats will push for a gradual expansion of Medicaid and Medicare. Others, like Sanders and his growing list of allies, will push for an entirely new system. I don’t expect them to succeed anytime soon, but the debate over health care has moved much further to the left in recent years than I expected to see. And the Republican Party is largely responsible. Elsewhere, Paul Waldman and Jonathan Cohn explain that the Sanders plan is more a conversation starter than a finely honed proposal. A big reason is that Sanders still hasn’t talked much about the hard choices and tradeoffs involved. But he did get more specific yesterday about the potential ways to pay for the plan, including a broad tax increase on workers (dressed up as a tax increase on businesses) and a range of tax increases on the wealthy. My favorite: Create a new top income bracket, on income above $10 million a year. In Politico, Bill Scher argues that the Sanders plan will ultimately hurt Democrats: They will overpromise and disappoint their base, sacrifice other priorities and squander their recent political victory on health care. In The Times, Margot Sanger-Katz offers her take on the Sanders plan, writing that his changes to Medicare “are intended to make the health care system more affordable, but the details could have big effects on what sorts of care might be developed and made available.” Election watch. Don’t be fooled by claims that nothing can damage President Trump’s support. He has the lowest approval rating on record for a first-year president. Members of his party in Congress are announcing they won’t run for re-election. And they’re underperforming in special elections, including a couple of special state-legislature elections this week. “Democrats flipped two Republican-held state legislative seats — one in Oklahoma, one in New Hampshire — that Donald Trump carried in the 2016 election,” CNN’s Chris Cillizza writes. “That makes six turnovers from Republican to Democrat in contested state House and Senate races so far in 2017 — and 26 out of 35 races (at the state legislative and congressional level) in which the Democratic nominee has overperformed Hillary Clinton’s showing last November. (Worth noting: Republicans have yet to flip a Democratic-controlled seat so far this year.)” Related: Even though I disagree with the framing on Politico’s “Teflon Don” story, it is filled with intriguing analysis about the weaknesses of the Democrats’ current message. One person, one vote? Regardless, future Democratic candidates will struggle if lots of Democratic voters are barred from the polls. Amazingly, that’s what one member of Trump’s dubious “voter fraud” commission wants. Hans von Spakovsky, a member of the commission and Heritage Foundation legal fellow, urged Jeff Sessions, the attorney general, to exclude “Democrats,” “mainstream Republicans” and “academics” from the group, as the Campaign Legal Center reported. For more on the story, follow Jessica Huseman of ProPublica. As Matthew Miller, a Democratic former Justice Department official, said, “There are too many Trump scandals for most people to keep up with, but this one is as bad as it gets.” Jennifer Rubin of The Washington Post writes, “The voting commission is a fraud itself. Shut it down.”