This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. “It is safer to have a whole people respectably enlightened than a few in a high state of science and the many in ignorance.” That quotation comes from Thomas Jefferson, and he believed it so deeply that he devoted much of his public life to creating the University of Virginia. It became one of the country’s greatest public universities. On Friday, U.Va, as it’s known, named a new president, James Ryan, the highly regarded dean of Harvard’s education school. Ryan’s appointment is a good time to point out that, in a fundamental way, the University of Virginia is failing to live up to Jefferson’s ideals. It has for years been one of the least economically diverse colleges in the country — of any kind, public or private. The statistics are pretty amazing, as you can see in this Times graphic. About 9 percent of students at U.Va come from families earning at least $630,000 a year. Meanwhile, poor and working-class Virginians are largely shut out: Only 15 percent of the student body comes from the bottom 60 percent of the income distribution. Ryan doesn’t only have a strong reputation in education circles. He also has a history of caring about opportunity and fairness. A central motivation for taking the job, Susan Svrluga of The Washington Post wrote this weekend, was “his belief in the power of education, he said; his deanship at Harvard has been an opportunity to work with people focused on expanding educational opportunity.” The same story cited Ryan’s former colleague, Liz Magill, as saying he “loves U-Va’s mission as a public university.” It added: “That mission is personal: As the first member of his family to go to college, Ryan has a deep connection to the profound ways that higher education can transform lives.” U.Va’s home, Charlottesville, has become a symbol in recent weeks of the country’s deep inequities both racial and economic. Most of those inequities have little to do with the University of Virginia, of course. But the university isn’t exactly doing its part to combat them. Here’s hoping President-elect Ryan changes that. If you are wondering whether there are large numbers of highly qualified low-income students whom U.Va could enroll, there are. I described the academic research on this issue in a 2013 article. On the news. Congressional leaders are showing signs of scheduling a vote on the Cassidy-Graham health care bill next week. The bill has virtually no support from health care experts, as Dan Diamond of Politico notes. No surprise, there: It would take health insurance away from a vast number of people. If you want more details, read Paul Krugman’s column today. Jonathan Cohn of HuffPost has also written a clear summary: “Even if the bill’s political fortunes are difficult to pin down, the impact it would have as a law is crystal clear,” Cohn writes. The bill “would leave millions of Americans struggling to pay their medical bills and to get coverage.” Elsewhere. In Slate, April Glaser explains that the Trump administration is refusing to release Mar-a-Lago guest records even though taxpayer money is subsidizing stays there. It’s “the strongest evidence yet Donald Trump is violating constitutional anti-corruption clauses,” she writes. Matthew Hennessey of The Wall Street Journal interviews and profiles a rising Republican star, Eric Greitens. He is Missouri’s governor, as well as a former Democrat, Navy Seal and Rhodes Scholar. Greitens is an obvious potential presidential candidate for the post-Trump Republican party. In The Times.  “There is a tendency on the part of college-age men to define sexual assault according to their own standards, not according to campus guidelines,” write Nicole Bedera and Miriam Gleckman-Krut of the University of Michigan.