Last week, Senator Bernie Sanders introduced “Medicare for all” legislation, which would enroll all Americans into the nation’s Medicare program within four years. Senator Sanders, the Vermont independent, argues that his proposal would create a system that “works not just for millionaires and billionaires, but for all of us.” Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, Kamala Harris of California and over a dozen of their Senate Democratic colleagues have co-sponsored the legislation. Representative John Conyers, Democrat of Michigan, and state lawmakers in California have also proposed “single payer” health plans. Though we have widely divergent views on health policy — one of us preferring a German-style system (Dr. Weinberg), the other a more consumer-directed one (Dr. Chen) — we both believe that single-payer health care, including the proposal advanced by Senator Sanders, is the wrong choice for the country. We recently conducted an analysis of international health systems and concluded that single-payer advocates are substantially overstating the prevalence and success of such systems. While many other countries have universal health systems and feature more government control over individual health care decisions, almost none are actually single-payer. And all of them are wrestling with largely the same challenges Americans are, making different but equally difficult trade-offs on cost, quality and access. As Democrats and other policy makers debate the merits of Senator Sanders’s proposal, here are a few important observations about international systems that they ought to consider. First, a vanishingly small number of countries actually have single-payer systems. In fact, almost all feature some role for private-sector insurance companies and providers. Britain, which employs providers in its National Health Services, has a parallel private payment system. In countries like Canada — the system most similar to the one that Mr. Sanders seeks to create — private corporations provide insurance for services that fall outside of government guarantees. And these guaranteed benefits are substantially more limited than those in the Sanders proposal. Canada, for example, has no national prescription drug benefit but instead a patchwork of provincial systems. Some of the highest-rated international systems rely on private health insurers for most health care coverage — Germany’s, for example, is something like Obamacare exchanges for everyone, but significantly simpler and truly universal. The Netherlands and Switzerland have both moved recently to add more competition and flexibility to systems that were already built on the use of private insurers. Second, single-payer countries have also failed to control rising health care costs. This is important, given that Mr. Sanders’s proposal was released without a cost estimate or financing plan. For historical reasons, many other countries started with lower levels of health care spending than we did. Several analyses have shown that this has almost nothing to do with higher administrative costs or corporate profits in the United States and almost everything to do with the higher cost of health care services and the higher salaries of providers here. Although they started at a lower base — with, for example, doctors and nurses receiving lower salaries — countries around the world have all struggled with rising costs. From 1990 to 2012, the United States’ rate of health care cost growth was below that of many countries, including Japan and Britain. In 2015, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development warned that rising health care costs across all countries were unsustainable. Third, it is simply untrue that single-payer systems produce a better quality of care across the board. Most health-policy lectures in American universities start with a slide showing that we rank poorly on a broad number of public health measures and outcomes. Yet the United States scores much more highly on different measures, including innovation, patient-centered care and preventive health. Specialty care is better in many categories, although more needs to be done to create broader access to these services. The American health system excels, for example, in cancer care. And while we spend more on it than any other country, we find ourselves at the top of most international rankings in reducing the death rate of patients with preventable cancer deaths, as a product of this spending. In truth, all systems make trade-offs when it comes to allocating health care resources, and they all largely get what they pay for. To the extent that other countries achieve better public health outcomes, they do it primarily through more generous, rather than more efficient, social spending. When you add together health and social spending across countries, the United States is no longer a major outlier when it comes to per capita costs spent on factors that promote health. American policy makers can and should look abroad for examples of reforms that work. For example, many other countries have encouraged smarter public and private investments into factors that promote health and wellness, like stable housing and employment opportunities, rather than spending more overall on health care once people are sick. But just as trade-offs must be made to improve health care, so are other countries struggling with balancing the cost and quality of care and universal access. All Americans should bear one important precept in mind: If the Sanders plan sounds too good to be true, it probably is.