Does free community college work? An experiment in Chicago suggests that the answer is yes. Two years ago, under a program called the Star Scholarship, Chicago began to offer free community college to all public high school graduates who earned a B average or higher and demonstrated near college-level proficiency in their work. To keep costs for students low, they also get their textbooks free. Since the program was created by Mayor Rahm Emanuel, roughly 1,000 students a year — about 5 percent of each Chicago Public Schools graduating class — have claimed their reward. This fall, more than 2,900 of these students are attending the City Colleges of Chicago, the city’s community college system, which has roughly 90,000 students. Most of the Star Scholars are pursuing an associate degree so that they can transfer to a four-year college, but they can also earn certification in various fields along the way and head right into the work force if they choose. Attending either full or part-time, they have up to three years to use the scholarship. The early results of this initiative have been incredibly encouraging. Two-thirds of the 890 Star Scholars who started in the fall of 2015 have either graduated or are currently enrolled with enough credits so that they are on course to complete their degree within three years, the federal benchmark for associate degree completion. In fact, the percentage of students who graduated in two years (22 percent) is nearly the same as the national community college three-year graduation rate and the retention rate of these students after the first year (85 percent) was close to twice the national average for community college students. This success is especially remarkable at the community college level, where the challenge of improving retention and graduation rates is just as pressing as the challenge of enhancing affordability. Among the more than 200 students who have graduated already, more than two-thirds were the first in their families to go to college, more than 90 percent were members of minority groups and more than 60 percent were female. To our knowledge, this is also the only public scholarship in the country open to undocumented immigrants who were brought to the country as children. These are students like Arturo, a son of Mexican immigrants. He attended a large public high school on Chicago’s Northwest Side, where his intellectual curiosity was piqued by computer science classes. Arturo says that without the Star Scholarship he would probably still be in the early stages of his community college career because he would have spent much of his time working a minimum-wage job to afford even the low-tuition cost. Instead, Arturo graduated in two years this past May, and was awarded an additional scholarship from the CME Group, which operates financial exchanges. CME also helped arrange a paid summer internship for him at a financial trading firm. Arturo is now a junior at the state’s four-year public university campus in Chicago, studying to become a software engineer. A focus on merit has been a guiding principle of the Star program. This helps keep the premise simple: if students work hard, they can go to community college free. And as with Arturo, that opportunity can extend beyond community college. More than half of the first graduating class was accepted at one or more of City Colleges’ 20 four-year college partners, all of which have agreed to offer discounted tuition. For students who qualify for the program, this means that they can earn a four-year degree for essentially the cost of a year and a half of college, as long as they study hard from high school through community college. During the 2016 election campaign, both Bernie Sanders and Hillary Clinton proposed plans that would free Americans from the enormous cost of college, which have put so many students into debt — and kept upward mobility out of reach. But no legislation has passed on the national stage, and none is expected. In the laboratories of the cities and the states, though — in New York, Oregon, Rhode Island, Indiana, Montana, Minnesota, Kentucky, Nevada, Washington and Arkansas, as well as Detroit, Pittsburgh, New Haven, Kalamazoo, Mich., Oakland, Calif., and Tulsa, Okla. — local governments have created or are considering plans to cover tuition for a select number of students or to greatly reduce the cost of college tuition. Among the states, perhaps Tennessee has gone the farthest, offering two years of tuition-free community college for all high school graduates. City Colleges picks up the cost after all other forms of financial aid has been applied. Chicago’s plan funds the scholarship with general operating funds from property taxes. Historically strong reserves have enabled City Colleges to make this commitment, and an endowment is being created as we find more efficient ways of running our programs and sell underutilized assets. Recognizing that a high school diploma is no longer sufficient for success, the Star Scholarship program is part of a broader initiative afoot in Chicago to create a seamless “K to 14” system. Earlier this year, Mayor Emanuel announced an effort to ensure that all Chicago public high school students graduate with a plan for what they will do after high school, whether it is going to a four-year or two-year college, a job, the military, an internship or something else. The city is also engaging high school students with college-level work as soon as they are ready by offering free college courses. Chicago’s dual enrollment-dual credit program, with high school students taking free college classes, has grown more than tenfold since 2011, serving more than 4,000 students last year. More than 200 high school students graduated last spring with a full semester of college credit this way. It is no coincidence that the vast majority of Star graduates this year were among the cohort of students who earned college credit while still in high school. Students not only save money, they also earn the confidence that they can succeed in college-level courses. A well-earned sense of self-assurance is another reason our retention rates are so high. What we have seen in Chicago is that when the entire community wraps its arms around students who are willing to work hard, the dream of a college education does not have to be accompanied by the nightmare of a sea of debt. America decided in the early 20th century that high school was the baseline of free public education. In the early 21st century, a postsecondary credential is the new requirement for a family-sustaining career. To help our students meet this higher educational bar, we must create educational programs that reflect that new reality.