I hate New Year’s Eve. For years, I tried to rally and convince myself that the hellscape of selfies and stilettos was fun. More recently I’ve wised up and fled the city to my grandparents in Florida, where I play bartender and we’re all in bed by 10 p.m. I’ve thought a lot about why I allow Dec. 31 to terrorize me. Partly it’s the passage of time. Partly it’s the forced merriment and the inevitable disappointment. Partly it’s the reminder of my mortality, and that of those I love. But fundamentally, it’s also the fact that the whole enterprise feels unnatural to me, like a mulligan for the real new year. For me, that is Rosh Hashana, which begins this Wednesday night at sundown. There’s no question that I am biased toward the Hebrew calendar over the Gregorian one. I am also convinced that you don’t need to be a member of the tribe to appreciate the existential message of this holy day. If you crave an anti-new year New Year, consider adopting Rosh Hashana as your own. Start off with the easy stuff. This is Judaism: There is food. Apples and honey symbolize our wishes for a sweet new year. The challah, typically long and braided, is round to remind us of the cycle of life. Many of us eat “new fruits” — New York City groceries stock up on lychees and star fruits and pomegranates in anticipation — to, yes, celebrate the newness of the year. There’s also my personal favorite, the fish head, a culinary pun, since Rosh Hashana literally means the head of the year. (Some Jews even eat the head of a lamb; let’s just say that custom never made it to Pittsburgh, where I grew up.) O.K., so the menu is slightly more humble than caviar and Dom Pérignon. But Christopher Hitchens was right about Champagne anyway. Second, there’s the season. December feels like the year’s nadir. Everything about September — the season change, the sweater weather, the new school year — feels like a new beginning, though a wise friend pointed out to me that September is actually the time when everything in nature begins the process of dying. That the Jewish year begins at a time of decay is an audacious assertion of hope, a reminder of the possibility of renewal. And renew we have. This year we’ll ring in the year 5778 — as in 5,778 years since the mythical creation of Adam and Eve, the birthday of humanity. As Louis C. K. pointed out in a recent bit, “The Christians won everything.” Exhibit A: “What year is it according to the entire human race?” Rosh Hashana is a reminder that there is a radically different way of keeping time. We mark the start of the secular new year by huddling around a TV to watch a disco ball plummet while we blow on plastic kazoos. That bleating sounds rather pathetic next to the primal wail that issues from the ram’s horn, or shofar, that we blow to begin Rosh Hashana. The shofar is meant to awaken us from our figurative slumber — a startling reminder that we are often sleepwalking through our lives. I have heard the shofar blown in so many different synagogues before Jews of wildly different levels of religious of observance. Rarely have I seen an adult without tears in their eyes upon hearing that ancient sound, a prayer beyond words. Jew or gentile, who among us doesn’t need this kind of spiritual alarm? The morning of Jan. 1 is when the counting of calories recommences: We join Weight Watchers; we splurge on gym memberships. Rosh Hashana requires a deeper kind of counting. That process is called “heshbon hanefesh,” literally an “accounting of the soul.” The stocktaking requires serious reflection on the past year, which is why Rosh Hashana is also referred to as Yom Hazikaron, or the Day of Remembrance. The remembering is not just a private act: We are required to ask for forgiveness for those we have hurt during the past year. Some rely on mass emails, but we are meant to be as specific as possible, to make the apologies personal and precise. It’s like the ninth step of A.A. But every year. The idea here is that you can’t just ask God for forgiveness; you aren’t saved by belief. God can’t make a broken relationship whole. For that, you need to meet another person face to face. This is the essence of Judaism — a religion focused on this life, rather than the next, on this world rather than the world to come. The unburdening is cathartic. To see it enacted more literally, on Rosh Hashana afternoon, stop by your local river. There you’ll see Jews performing the ritual of “tashlich,” in which we empty our pockets of crumbs and throw them into the water — a symbol of emptying our souls of sin. Another name for Rosh Hashana is Yom Hadin, the Day of Judgment, and the metaphor, repeated in prayer after prayer, could not be clearer. God is the judge and jury. We are all, every one of us, on death row. And God alone decides whether or not we get written in the Book of Life. The liturgists who wrote many of the prayers we recite talk of trembling before God — and for me, around the age of 10, when my Hebrew finally got good enough to understand what we were saying, that verb couldn’t have been more apt. If I wasn’t sincere enough, if I didn’t sufficiently ask for forgiveness, if I didn’t genuinely change my ways, I believed I wouldn’t live to see the next year. I no longer believe that I’m going to be struck down by a punishing God. But as I’ve gotten older and more aware of the fragility of life, the metaphor has only become more urgent, even as the question of who is really doing the writing in that Book remains unanswered. Yehuda Amichai, Israel’s former national poet, helped me reimagine it: “I want to be written again/in the Book of Life,” he writes, “to be written every single day/till the writing hand hurts.” Amen.