This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. First, health care: Here’s a giveway about how bad the new Senate health care bill is: Bill Cassidy, one of its authors, keeps trying to sell it by telling untruths. “The relatively new phenomenon of just ‘up is down’ lying about your bill’s impacts is jarring,” says Loren Adler of the USC-Brookings-Schaeffer Initiative on Health Policy. Most egregiously, Cassidy is claiming that the bill would not ultimately deprive sick people of health insurance. That’s false, as NPR calmly explained when Cassidy said otherwise. In fact, the bill — known as Graham-Cassidy — would free states to remove insurance protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Without those protections, insurers could price such people out of the market. If you get cancer (or even have a family history of it) or your child is born with a birth defect — among many, many other health issues — you could find yourself unable to buy insurance. Without insurance, you could be denied crucial treatments. In a tangible way, Graham-Cassidy would harm millions of Americans. Aviva Aron-Dine and Sarah Kliff have both written good explainers on this issue. As Kliff notes, “There is literally no analysis” to support Cassidy’s claim that the bill would expand the number of insured. Jimmy Kimmel, the country’s most unexpected health wonk, has urged Cassidy to stop “jamming this horrible bill down our throats.” Insurers came out against the bill yesterday, joining doctors, hospitals, AARP, patient advocates, multiple governors and others. Meanwhile, Republican leaders are trying to win the vote of Lisa Murkowski — one of three Republican senators who voted against a previous Obamacare repeal bill, in July — by funneling money to Alaska. In the least surprising development of all, President Trump is now repeating Cassidy’s falsehoods. The last word on health care this morning goes to Nicholas Bagley of the University of Michigan. “Graham-Cassidy is a brazen effort to block any level of government, state or federal, from achieving near-universal coverage,” he writes.“That’s what the debate is about. Everything else is just noise.” Hurricane Maria:  Harvey, Irma and now Maria aren’t “natural disasters”; their destructiveness reflects bad policy toward coastal populations and climate change, argues Kerry Emanuel, a climate scientist at M.I.T. “We must first recognize the phrase ‘natural disaster’ for what it is: a sham we hide behind to avoid our own culpability,” he writes in The Washington Post. And, in case you missed them, I recommend the dueling pieces by The New Yorker’s George Packer and The Atlantic’s Ta-Nehisi Coates on the role that racism did and didn’t play in Trump’s election. It may be the most important debate about the election. In The Times: President Trump’s criticisms of the Iran nuclear agreement threaten to hand Iran leverage, argue William Burns and Jake Sullivan, two of the deal’s architects. “International partners would see that behavior for what it is — America failing to live up to its end of a bargain,” they write. “And we would lose all of our credibility in seeking a diplomatic resolution to the North Korea nuclear crisis.”