By now, President Trump’s sense of humor has been pretty well discussed. Either he doesn’t have one, or it’s subtle — like a group of especially awkward 12-year-old boys yucking it up in the cafeteria. A minute on Google produces an encyclopedia of moments when we have been assured Trump was “only joking.” Some prime examples include Sean Spicer saying Trump was joshing when he urged the Kremlin to hack Hillary Clinton’s emails during the campaign. Then there was the painful moment when his spokesperson, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said, “I believe he was making a joke,” after Trump suggested that police officers slam prisoners’ heads into the door jambs of their cars. Happily, Hope Hicks, Trump’s communications aide, put all our doubts to rest when she gave The Washington Post a formal statement saying that the president “is brilliant with a great sense of humor.” The “joking” dodge, of course, falls into the category of language tics that actually mean the opposite (“Did you actually pay someone for that haircut? Only kidding!” or “With all due respect, I think your ideas are terrible.”) It’s also worth pointing out that the wacky sense of fun among Trump and his supporters is selective. When Kellyanne Conway fulminated about a “nut job” spreading “vile” ideas that could “easily inflame lunatics who wish to bring harm,” she was talking about Johnny Depp’s very bad assassination joke, but not Trump retweeting a GIF showing him hitting Hillary Clinton in the back with a golf ball. Clearly the American people are expected to have some kind of gagometer on their Twitter feeds. Maybe Trump could adopt the Reddit style of adding “/s” to indicate that we should laugh. Otherwise, we’d spend too much time figuring out whether Trump was JK — just kidding — when, for example, he thanked Vladimir Putin for kicking out American diplomats. Maybe it’s simplest to take Trump and his band of merry pranksters at their word. That has the added benefit of allowing us to see — and perhaps better understand — other things that must, in hindsight, have been “just a joke.” For instance: — What he said: On Tuesday, Trump, speaking at the U.N. General Assembly, said that if Kim Jong-un threatens the United States or its allies, “We will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea.” Explanation: Humor, obviously — note the wry use of the redundant “totally destroy.” What he really meant was, “We will have no choice but to call Rocket Man more names and hit him with a whipped cream pie.” — What he said: During a campaign rally last August, Trump said that if Clinton became president, maybe the “Second Amendment” people could take action to stop her from appointing liberal judges. Explanation: Humor. He meant they could dress up as Charlton Heston and picket the White House — what else? — What he said: Trump announced that he was going to kick all transgender people out of the military and bar them from service. Explanation: Only a cynic could fail to see that he was being funny. He knew the military chiefs would keep it from happening (as they may well be doing). — What he said: He promised Americans they would have “beautiful” health care and that nobody would lose out when he killed Obamacare. Explanation: A joke, obviously, given that his ideas will leave more people uninsured and make insurance policies more expensive. — What he said: He tweeted on April 27, 2015, that “Our great African American President hasn’t exactly had a positive impact on the thugs who are so happily and openly destroying Baltimore!” Explanation: So clearly a joke. He doesn’t think Obama was “great” at all! — What he said: He allowed that if Ivanka wasn’t his daughter, “perhaps I’d be dating her,” bragged about grabbing women’s genitals and told Maureen Dowd in 1999 that if he ran for president (remember how funny that once seemed?), “the only difference between me and the other candidates is that I’m more honest and my women are more beautiful.” Explanation: Merely being puckish. Gene Weingarten of The Washington Post, who actually is funny, summed it up pretty well. “I suspect at Trump family events,” he said, “Trump plays Don Rickles, but viciously.”