After reading the Times story this week about new evidence that playing tackle football, especially before the age of 12, may lead to diminished cognitive function later in life, my first thought was, “Thanks, Mom.” I wasn’t always so grateful. As a sports-mad boy in Staten Island in the 1970s, I played in the streets with the dozen or so kids in my neighborhood — stickball, hockey (sneakers, no skates), touch football and basketball at a single backboard and hoop anchored by a cement block on a side street. But having no wide-open green space, we would walk the quarter mile or so from Comstock Avenue to “the Circle,” a wide bowl of grass below the Staten Island Expressway, cradled in the arm of the off-ramp of the Richmond Avenue exit, and play “tackle” football. With store-bought pads and helmets we sometimes had to share, we barely hit one another. Tackling typically meant grabbing the ball carrier’s shirt and not letting go, swinging him around until centrifugal force and his own flailing limbs left him splayed on the grass. Excitement for this pickup game was highest after a dazzling Sunday performance by Franco Harris, O. J. Simpson or my favorite, Chuck Foreman. I was 10, maybe 12, and hadn’t yet lost my baby fat, but I was a natural athlete and could run. I dreamed of the breathtaking field-length gallops I watched on Sunday, running backs juking hapless defenders, spinning off hits and striding Achilles-like into the end zone. At the Circle, I got a rush from the breakaway runs and fingertip catches that I could sometimes pull off in this motley crew of competitors. It wasn’t long before I wanted the real thing — a local Junior League that took the sport seriously, with barking coaches, grueling preseason practices, hot-weather crunches and sprints, and games with full pads, whistles and referees. The tackling here was real. As usual, there were papers to sign. I needed parental approval. But in my house, there was a philosophical split. My father was a firefighter and my Little League baseball coach. He was an athlete, too, and a first-rate one, who played three sports in high school and competed into his 30s. I watched him play second base for Silvestri’s, Staten Island’s gritty, nationally ranked fast-pitch softball team, and take the field in 1973 as the Fire Department’s starting cornerback in the city’s first “Fun City Bowl” football game against the Police Department’s team at Midwood field in Brooklyn, where he walked off with an award for defensive player of the game. While today he is modest about these feats, they seemed superhuman to me. Not surprisingly, I wanted to do what he did. And while he may have been skeptical about my mettle, he would have no objection to my taking on a season or two of contact sports that might toughen me up. My mother was another story, a worrier, to put it mildly. While we were decades away from the medical revelations of the dangers of football, her natural protective instincts, which could often spill over into full-blown anxiety, told her that the hot-weather practices in full gear and the hard contact that was the core of the game were not for her little boy. The idea that I could possibly get hurt was for her too much. For what? A game? No. Later, after I was accepted to Monsignor Farrell, the island’s prestigious all-boys Catholic high school, she argued against my attending. She was afraid I would try out for football. She prevailed, and I went to a different school, Moore Catholic, which did not have a football team, but where I found a home on one of the best baseball teams in the city. At the time, my mother’s fears did not seem justified. With no real evidence of football’s harms, she was acting on pure, primal fear that her child would be injured or die. These were humiliating moments for me. I could not knock around with boys my age and let them know that I wanted to play football but my mother wouldn’t let me. What I did not understand was that sometimes fear, even the irrational sort, has a purpose, an evolutionary logic. It is bred into our makeup for a reason. It is supposed to keep us well, and alive. While throughout much of my life I bristled against and complained about my mother’s overprotectiveness — her worrying, her curfews, her rules against my crossing the expressway exit into the Circle, her objections to a class trip to Great Adventure because she had visions of me falling off a ride — I am glad now. At least for this. While she frustrated me and seemed to stand in the way of my becoming the sort of hero I saw my father to be, I see things differently now. With each new report of the damage that full-contact football can cause, the logic of her fear is playing out. We know that not every child who plays football will develop dementia. But science is clearly telling us that the blows add up, and many parents are deciding that in a world of dozens of possible sports, football may not be worth it. I am in my 50s now. Each year I understand more clearly that my body and mind are intrinsically designed to fail over time. And I cling to my health — my ability to think, speak and move freely — more fiercely than ever. I am a believer in team sports. I would not trade my years playing baseball for anything. And while I’m sure I missed out on some of the joys and lessons of the gridiron, I also made it to my adult life without a broken bone or a concussion. I hope that will play in my favor when things inevitably start going south. And if it does, I will know who to thank.