A few years ago, the Hudson River Park Trust floated an idea for a new island. Called Pier 55, it was to be a two-and-a-half-acre wavy rectangle 200 feet off Manhattan reached by two narrow bridges, replacing the remains of Pier 54 near West 14th Street, where the Lusitania used to dock. The trust enlisted the media mogul Barry Diller, whose corporate headquarters are nearby, to cover most of the construction and operational costs; he brought in Heatherwick Studio (a London specialist in such projects) to design it. Though planned as a public park, the design also accommodated three outdoor event venues; it’s easy to imagine ticket-takers and other gate-keepers manning those bridges. Extraordinary philanthropy, in our new Gilded Age, is extraordinarily praiseworthy. But with ever more private and corporate investment through Trusts and Friends and Foundations and Conservancies, it’s worth wondering what else seeps into public space — not the least of which seems to be a taste for order. The pedestrian strand fronting New York’s Metropolitan Museum of Art was once a motley of fountains, old trees, vendors of artsy ephemera and street performers. In recent years it has become a tidier, drier place, with rows of oversize awnings and undersize trees — called, after its patron, David H. Koch Plaza. The High Line, a justly celebrated conversion of a former elevated railway along Manhattan’s West Side into a linear park, was also the beneficiary of generous private funding. Because you can’t get too cute on a narrow platform 30 feet up, it requires more rules than some parks — but perhaps not as many as it has. Although its look evokes the thrillingly unplanned combination of infrastructure and wilderness that inspired the preservation of the overgrown viaduct, its defining detail is the prim arrangement of metal pins and ropes that enforce the border between paving and planting. They seem to say: Do not wander, do not play, do not fool around. As with the bollards and bottlenecks that are a rational, tactical response to urban terrorism, there can be reasonable safety justifications for pins and ropes and similar features. Yet there is also something in this regulation that goes beyond defense against the worst possibilities, toward a discouragement of all the benign irregularities — the unruly felicities, creative improvisations, leisurely inefficiencies and insouciant eccentricities — that are the heart of urban life. The quintessential case study is the slow diminishment of Washington Square Park in Greenwich Village. The 1958 rescue of this nine-acre square was a victory for activists, including the urbanist Jane Jacobs, in the nascent historical preservation movement. With the square closed to automobile traffic, the local community board nurtured an open-source and bottom-up redesign into a park, enlisting neighborhood designers coordinated by the polymathic playwright Robert Nichols. What resulted, in 1970, was a masterpiece. A modern, grown-up playground, its unconventional features nurtured how people most loved to use the place: a curvy sculptural landscape, encircled by shade trees, of low platforms and niches that served as spontaneous seats or stages for troubadours, arrayed like petals around a fountain, stepping down toward it to make an urban conversation pit, providing spectacle and sanctuary. Forty years later, the well-used park was in need of care, but instead got a top-down Parks Department remake. A perimeter fence went up. The sunken plaza was filled and flattened. The leaky fountain — now officially the Tisch Fountain, in honor of a $2.5 million gift from a private foundation — was repaired. But it was also shoved 20 feet sideways from the park’s center and made to line up with Washington Arch to its north, reducing lively counterpoint to relentless alignment. Shapes from Mr. Nichols’s composition were weakly echoed in narrow new benches. But the park doesn’t do its job as well as it did, and its remaining energy may be more a testament to indomitable downtown bohemians than to its new order. A tide may be turning. In August, the mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, reversed his predecessor’s endorsement of Garden Bridge, a Thames-spanning structure (coincidentally also a Heatherwick design) that would have been owned and operated by a private philanthropic trust — seeming to affirm the tart cross-channel critique by Jean-Louis Missika, the deputy mayor of Paris, that his own city wouldn’t hand over “the management of public space to the private sector.” And this month, after a protracted series of lawsuits (reportedly bankrolled, in another kind of incursion of private patronage into public affairs, by other deep-pocketed patrons) that cited permitting irregularities and marine life conservation, and that syncopated the park’s development, Mr. Diller withdrew his support for Pier 55, effectively sinking the imaginary island. In our liberal democracy, any occupation of public space — even, sometimes especially, at play — is a celebration of the rights of assembly and expression. The greatest success of parks and plazas is not in some efficient, one-to-one mapping of activities to facilities, or in the controlled consumption of culture, but in the ways that, as a matter of policy and design, they encourage the taking of liberties.