This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Defenders of the new Trumpcare — the Graham-Cassidy bill — are telling Jimmy Kimmel to be quiet and leave the health policy debate to the experts. So I wanted to give you a quick rundown this morning of what the experts are saying about the bill: It “violates the precept of ‘first do no harm’” and “would result in millions of Americans losing their health insurance coverage.” – American Medical Association, which represents doctors. It is “the worst healthcare bill yet.” – American Nurses Association. It “would erode key protections for patients and consumers.” – American Hospital Association.  The “process [in the Senate] is just as bad as the substance. ... Most Americans wouldn’t buy a used car with this little info.” – AARP. The bill will “weaken access to the care Americans need and deserve.” – American Heart Association, jointly with the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, the American Diabetes and Lung associations, the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, the March of Dimes and others. “This bill harms our most vulnerable patients.” – American Psychiatric Association. It would hurt “consumers and patients by further destabilizing the individual market; cutting Medicaid; pulling back on protections for pre-existing conditions.” – America’s Health Insurance Plans. It “would lead to a loss of health insurance for at least 32 million people after 2026. ... By repealing the ACA’s coverage expansions and cutting deeply into the Medicaid program, the Graham-Cassidy bill threatens the health care of as many as 100 million people, from newborns to the elderly.” — Sara Collins, The Commonwealth Fund. Take that, Jimmy Kimmel. You’re nothing but a late-night talk show host trying to prevent your fellow citizens from losing access to decent medical care. In today’s Times, Paul Krugman brings back the three-legged stool to explain Graham-Cassidy. Dr. Enrichment: Tom Price’s taxpayer-funded private flights are a reminder that he has a history of profiting off of public service. I covered the unpleasant details in a February column. Elsewhere: I recommend two new essays on “tribalism” in American politics. In New York Magazine, Andrew Sullivan argues that liberals and conservatives increasingly inhabit two competing “tribes” divided by “ideology, geography, party, class, religion and race.” Abetted by winner-take-all elections, tribalism “drags the country toward alternating administrations bent primarily on undoing everything their predecessors accomplished, or the kind of gridlock that has dominated national politics for the past seven years.” Slate’s Isaac Chotiner counters that although Sullivan notes that the political right “bears the bulk of the historical blame,” he treats tribalism as a bipartisan “pathology.” In truth, Chotiner says, the markers of tribalism — “self-contradiction and indifference to reality” — are mostly a Republican affliction, and Sullivan’s proposed solution of “empiricism and moderation” won’t work. In The Times: Jack Markell, Delaware’s former two-term governor, ran only a small state, but he was still one of the most thoughtful and successful governors during his time in office. (You can read my take on two of his education pushes here and here.) In an Op-Ed, he writes about his experience trying to woo companies with government giveaways — and why the practice should stop. Related: In USA Today, the urban-development expert Steven Strauss urges cities to have the strength and smarts to “walk away” from trying to win Amazon’s new headquarters.