Next week, Trump administration officials and leading Republicans in Congress are expected to unveil a new framework on tax reform. At the same time, Republicans are coming to the end of a last-ditch, likely doomed, effort to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. On health care, Republicans have faced overwhelming opposition from most Americans, who realize that the replacement plan would cut coverage and increase costs for working and middle-class Americans. Facts still matter and the same will happen if Republicans insist on masking similar tax cuts as tax reform. True reform will require a bipartisan consensus around closing loopholes to pay for the lowering of statutory tax rates paid by businesses, and reducing burdens on working families. Changing tax law must be done in a fiscally responsible way, without cutting taxes for the very wealthy. Accomplishing this will be hard, but it is the only path to a meaningful restructuring of the tax code. Four principles should guide Congress in the coming debate. First, changes in the tax rates for individuals must at least maintain the current levels of progressivity, which range from 10 percent for the lowest income bracket to 39.6 percent for the highest. Cutting tax rates for the very wealthy would deepen the income inequality that underlies the anxiety and anger among American voters. If Congress doesn’t preserve or increase progressivity, we won’t have the resources to pay for investments like infrastructure and child care. Congress must also maintain the estate tax, which is levied only on estates worth more than $5.49 million ($10.98 million for a couple), affects only the wealthiest 0.2 percent and protects small businesses, including family farmers. Many of the estates that are taxed have assets that have increased in value but have never been subject to capital gains tax, and never will be. The idea that the estate tax imposes double taxation is largely a myth. Second, tax cuts must be offset by revenue-raising measures. With the country in the ninth year of an economic recovery, the case for pure stimulus is weak, and digging a deep hole of debt by cutting taxes will make it harder to pay for other priorities. And when that debt makes deficits skyrocket in the future, policy makers would have to choose between raising taxes and cutting investments and vital benefits. It matters greatly how a tax cut is paid for. Tax cuts need to be revenue neutral, paid for by reducing tax subsidies, ending loopholes or generating new revenue. Deficit neutral, which would merely hold the line on increasing deficits, is not good enough, because it would open the door to cuts in basic programs for low- and middle-income families. Third, Congress should rely on its Joint Committee on Taxation and the Congressional Budget Office to estimate what a tax bill will cost. Claims that tax cuts pay for themselves must be treated with great skepticism. Some Republican policy makers suggest they may reject mainstream approaches and assume positive economic effects that go far beyond those normally projected by the budget office and the tax committee. And there are troubling signs that the White House and Treasury Department may do the same, departing from practices under past Democratic and Republican administrations. Such a reckless move would almost surely produce an explosion of debt. In 1981, 2001 and 2003, tax cuts based on projections that they would largely pay for themselves did not, and when deficits soared, future presidents had to make hard choices to restore fiscal stability. Next time, working- and middle-class families would be very much at risk under this misguided approach. Fourth, business tax reform must not open up new loopholes for top earners to evade taxes. Proposals to lower the tax rate on “pass-through” income (income that partnerships, sole proprietorships, S corporations and limited-liability companies “pass through” to owners) would create a costly, unpoliceable loophole. Wealthy individuals and businesses could easily reorganize on paper to take advantage of low pass-through rates. Advocates say this approach benefits small business, but most pass-through income goes to wealthy individuals and big businesses like hedge funds and large oil and gas pipeline companies organized as limited partnerships. In 2016, the Treasury estimated that most of the benefit of a 15 percent pass-through rate would go to the top end of the income distribution. Kansas instituted a similar policy in 2012 and repealed it this year after 100,000 new pass-throughs emerged — among them the coach of the University of Kansas basketball team, who had his salary paid to a pass-through entity to escape state income tax. Yet job and economic growth in Kansas lagged that of most neighboring states, evidence that the policy did not produce the growth that supporters promised. Tax cuts are expensive, and when the time comes to pay the bill, tax increases are rarely a popular solution. Far more likely options are cuts to Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Medicare, Medicaid, food stamps and annual appropriations for education and research. Paying for a tax cut by putting vulnerable Americans at risk is not tax reform. Reforming the tax code requires hard choices like eliminating tax breaks and the courage to face down special interests. Bipartisan support is crucial. The tax debate is not just about decisions today — it will shape options for many years to come.