I do not know how to drive. My middle sister, Kerri, learned to drive a few years ago. We are both well into adulthood, but I still rely on her and our oldest sister, Kirsten, for any sort of transportation outside of New York City. So this summer, when we took a road trip, with our mother and Kirsten’s husband and two children, to women’s history sites, I found myself in the slightly disempowering back seat while on a search for empowerment. It was a road trip to answer the following question: What does the rallying cry of sisterhood and the concept of feminism mean when last year, the majority of white, female voters chose whiteness as a political identity over womanhood? What does feminism mean to each of us, as black women, when we had just lived through an election season of hearing candidates and commentators use that old, unexamined phrase, “women and black people,” skipping over our existence as both? How do we understand women’s history as triumphant when we are still smarting from the very public smackdown of a woman attempting to reach the highest seat of power? My sisters were the perfect people with whom to seek some answers. I idolized my sister Kerri growing up. I still do. When she was a teenager and I was still in middle school, she wore high-rise short shorts and tube tops, the living embodiment of the song “Shoop,” strutting down the halls of our super-white prep school. She also played cello, loved Pushkin and read and wrote obsessively. She was that thing that too much of America fears and ridicules — the loud, black teenage girl. And now she’s an academic, bumping vintage D’Angelo in her hybrid car as she pulls into her university parking space. I did not need critical race theory or third-wave feminism to tell me about the myth of the Jezebel. I had Kerri. My sister Kirsten taught me the importance of work for women. There is the seductive, unobtainable fantasy of “A Room of One’s Own,” and then there is the reality of the life of a working mother and artist — revising your work and responding to students and drafting grant applications from the front seat of your car while your kids are in dance practice. I watched her live the life of a playwright-mother, and seeing her do it gave me the courage to try for a similar life myself. My sisters taught me how to be a feminist. They taught me in their contradictions, in the fact that they contain multitudes. My family is black in Northeastern America, which means our economic and social success was dependent on fleeing as far away from predominantly black neighborhoods and schools as possible. So my upwardly mobile parents moved us to a predominantly white neighborhood and I always went to predominantly white schools. My best friend was the little white girl who lived next door. Her mother loves to tell this story: After playing at our house, she begged her mother for a Barbie. On Christmas morning, my best friend opened her present and burst into tears. “This is not Barbie!” she sobbed. She held up the white, blond Barbie in its box. “Barbie has brown skin! She has black curly hair! This is not the Barbie at Kaitlyn’s house!” Black womanhood was always centered in our home, so I didn’t look at white women with envy because they were white. And I was rarely instinctively suspicious of them. Like most black and brown people in this country, despite what white people may believe, I was not actively looking for the ways whites slighted me because I was black. Especially when you live and work in predominantly white spaces, you have to hold on to the social fiction that white people are responding to you as an individual. If you do not hold on to that lie, or at least use it judiciously, you risk going mad with grief and anger. But since the election, that has changed. The art historian Moyo Okediji notes that in Yoruban concepts of history, the community must assure children that they are not physically alone and “that a series of road maps exists, made by great and talented ancestors who as individuals have beaten a track for succeeding generations.” That is why history is a comfort to me, in times of doubt. And this is, of course, why the past is a battleground. Why we fight about statues, and which system of oppression should be enshrined in bronze to be remembered or torn down to be recorded differently. I have seen, first hand, how understanding history can change people’s present-day attitudes. A decade ago, in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, I led a group of black high school students on a tour of the Hunterfly Road Houses. I told them the story of black self-determination and liberation in 19th-century Brooklyn. By the end, these students literally broke into song — a spontaneous rendition about freedom and joy and black excellence. It was one of the most profound moments of my life. Whenever anyone insists that the past doesn’t matter, that we should get over it, I think of those students, dancing on a lawn in central Brooklyn on a school-day afternoon, stepping to the rhythm of the names of black abolitionists. This July, my sisters and I were chasing something like that feeling. We wanted to find women who could remind us that another, more tolerant, hopeful way of being is possible. It was possible 150 years ago, during a time when people supposedly didn’t know any better — and we hoped that perspective would help us in this present time, when people supposedly do. My sisters selected the following women to lead us on our tour: Prudence Crandall, Sarah Harris, Belinda Sutton and Ellen Garrison. Our first stop is the Prudence Crandall Museum, a wide, Federalist-style building in Canterbury, Conn. In 1831, Crandall, a young white woman, opened a school in the building for the daughters of the wealthy white families in town. It was a success. The next year, Sarah Harris, a 20-year-old black woman, wrote to Crandall. Harris hoped to eventually open a school for black children in Connecticut. She wrote: “Miss Crandall, I want to get a little more learning, if possible, enough to teach colored children and if you will admit me to your school, I shall forever be under greatest obligation to you. If you think it will be the means of injuring you, I will not insist on the favor.” I think about this letter, the carefulness of the words. It’s a tone that I recognize, that I think most people who have ever worked under oppression recognize. It is the tone you adopt when you are unsure if the person you are talking to has the ability to see you as a fellow human. Crandall admitted Harris, and the white parents pressured her to expel Harris. Crandall refused, and parents removed their daughters. In response, Crandall doubled down on her commitment to educating black women. She reached out to black communities and to the white abolitionist William Lloyd Garrison to recruit more black female students. The surrounding white community attacked the school and attempted to burn it down. Connecticut passed a law that made it illegal to educate African-Americans who were not already state residents. The museum has a section dedicated to the stories of the women who studied there. Students returned to their states and started schools of their own for black people, started black newspapers and antislavery newspapers, and opened their homes to activists. Kerri, history nerd that she is, recognizes all the names on the wall as though they are old friends. Our next stop on the tour was the Royall House and Slave Quarters, in Medford, Mass., home of the only standing slave quarters north of the Mason-Dixon line. The Royalls were the largest slaveholding family in Massachusetts, making their money from the enslaved people who worked their plantations in the Caribbean. The family used the fortune earned from enslaved labor to found Harvard Law School. My sisters chose this stop because of Belinda Sutton, a woman the Royall family enslaved. By her own account, she was born in Africa, kidnapped at around 12 and sold to the Royall plantation in Antigua. She was enslaved into her old age. When the family patriarch, Isaac Royall Jr., died, his will gave her the choice of freedom or enslavement. Sutton, even at her advanced age, chose the unknown of freedom. She was promised an annuity, which she successfully sued the Royall family for — twice. Kirsten has been writing a play about Belinda Sutton for the past few years. Standing in the stately home, Penny Outlaw, a co-president of the museum, reminded us that Isaac Royall Jr. opposed the American Revolution. Yet, she told us on the tour, the American government compensated him fully for seizing his property during the war. Sutton got three years’ worth of compensation for more than 60 years of stolen labor, she said. Unlike some other plantations, the Royall House museum emphasizes what the enslaved people there would have experienced. In the main house, we are shown the slaves’ staircase. It’s a winding staircase with only one or two windows and very little light. There’s no banister, the stairs are steep, and the walls would have been painted black, so that the handprints of the enslaved men and women using the stairs remained invisible. “Can you imagine,” Ms. Outlaw said, “going up and down these stairs on a winter night, in the dark?” Our final stop, on the Fourth of July, was the Robbins House, in Concord, Mass. The house now sits directly across the street from the North Bridge, on the site where the first successful battle of the Revolutionary War was fought. The Robbins House was part of the farm that the patriarch of the family, Caesar Robbins, a previously enslaved man and a Revolutionary War veteran, was invited to live on. The house, on the outskirts of Concord, was then far from the white residents. A generation later, Thoreau would reference some of Robbins’s descendants in his journals. But to me, the most remarkable descendant was Ellen Garrison, born in the homestead in 1823. As a young woman, she and her mother were deeply involved in the antislavery movement, and she signed petitions protesting the federal government’s treatment of the Cherokee and calling for states to repeal the death penalty. After the Civil War, she immediately signed up to teach in schools established by the Freedmen’s Bureau. There, she was required to fill out forms assessing the intelligence of the newly freed slaves — on every one, report after report, she firmly wrote that they were “equal” to white men. But Garrison is most remarkable for testing the limits of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1866, legislation that would have ushered in an equal society if white lawmakers had not given up on enforcing it. One month after it was enacted, and 89 years ahead of Rosa Parks, Ellen Garrison challenged the segregated public transportation in Maryland. She refused to move from a ladies waiting lounge and was forcibly ejected. Garrison sued, and a Maryland grand jury dismissed the suit in July 1866. After touring the house, my sisters and I sat on the green, while all around us, people paraded, dressed in the costumes of colonists who believed in freedom with conditions — not necessarily for women, not necessarily for black people and certainly not for black women. I think about the foresight and sheer leaps of intelligence it took for Crandall, for Harris, for Sutton and Garrison, to imagine a world that most around them could not imagine. It is a world I have to keep telling myself we are almost in sight of, if we keep thinking and planning and plotting as they did.