Jann Wenner, the founder of Rolling Stone magazine, announced a few days ago that he was putting his company’s controlling stake in the longtime music publication up for sale. For many, it feels like the end of an era, but especially for me. I worked there in the early 1990s, as an intern and then as an editorial assistant. It’s where I learned how to be a journalist — and, to a greater extent than I realized at the time, it’s where I learned how to be an American. In the summer of 1992, as part of the requirements for my journalism degree at the University of Maryland, College Park, I applied for an internship at a few publications, including Rolling Stone. At the time, the magazine was widely regarded as the leading cultural magazine in America. The coolest thing I could imagine was to work there — even if I wouldn’t get paid. When I got the internship, I packed my bags and moved to New York without a moment’s thought, leaving my boyfriend behind. I grew up in Lebanon and moved to the United States as a teenager, and when I arrived in New York my understanding of the country was still taking shape; I was still grappling with the complicated set of rules that governed American culture, so different from what I had imagined as a child, gorging on American film, TV shows and music in the embattled Beirut of the 1970s and ’80s. The road to success, I quickly realized, was not a straight shot but a windy, often hard to see or follow thruway. And another thing: America had yet to become the feminist Eden I was so eager to inhabit. These, and many others, aren’t the sorts of things I picked up on overnight. But I couldn’t have chosen a better place to begin unpacking them than Rolling Stone in the early 1990s. I felt instantly at home. I thought at the time that I was not learning much, sifting through daily newspapers for articles the editors might want to read, but it provided me with a front view of American culture — both the day-to-day culture of a professional American work environment, and the unfolding of the culture at large through the production of one of its most famous magazines. The internship’s three months went by fast, and I was soon back at school. But a few days after I graduated the following December, I was in New York again, desperately hoping to be hired at Rolling Stone. Three agonizing months later, an editorial assistant position opened up at the magazine. I applied and got it. By then, Rolling Stone was no longer the subversive publication it started out as back in 1967, but it was still far from a regular working environment. On any given day, Eddie Vedder, Anthony Kiedis, Mick Jagger, Tom Cruise or John F. Kennedy Jr. might drop by. My cubicle was the closest to Mr. Wenner’s office, so I had a front-row seat to the comings and goings. Whenever a celebrity visited, I would suddenly become the most popular person in the office, with everyone rushing to my desk to “chat” as they ogled the latest high-profile guest. In between short bouts of actual work, I would huddle with a group of fellow employees to discuss the latest movie or book or concert that we had attended the previous night, with free tickets thanks to the generosity (and busyness) of David Fricke, the legendary Ramones-look-alike music editor; Anthony DeCurtis, the editor of the music review section; and Sid Holt, the de facto head editor of the magazine and my immediate boss. I would often saunter to the office of my other immediate boss, Peter Travers, Rolling Stone’s widely quoted film reviewer, hoping to talk movies. I still cringe at my dismissal of the 1995 Todd Haynes film, “Safe,” starring Julianne Moore, proclaiming it tedious and pointless in front of Mr. Travers, who, for good reasons defended it — and, I am sure, thought the less of me for not being able to understand its cinematic and philosophical intentions. But I have no residue of shame for panning the insufferable “Happy Gilmore” — this was before Adam Sandler redeemed himself by starring in Paul Thomas Anderson’s “Punch-Drunk Love” — which represented to me the most inane aspects of American culture. Along with my secretarial responsibilities I ran the letters page and the table of contents, which meant it was my blessed duty to read everything we published. The magazine had published the works of some of the best-known journalists of the 20th century, such as Greil Marcus, Hunter S. Thompson, Lester Bangs and Cameron Crowe, and many were still contributing — sometimes, on my lucky days, they visited, too. It had also brought on many new writers, some of whom, such as Chris Mundy, Jancee Dunn and Kim Neely, became my own writing icons. All three sat near me, and I would watch with great envy as they headed out of the office, sometimes for a few hours, often for days, to interview the person who would soon grace our cover. Mr. Holt oversaw my editorial duties, and we often sat together to devise the table of contents. It was during these sessions that I learned the power of the em dash in American writing, a device I now use — and abuse — in my own writing. Though negligible by then, my Lebanese accent sometimes poked its head, often when pronouncing a word that I hadn’t practiced enough. At the time, Rolling Stone was trying to shift with the times. It embraced shows like “Friends,” provocatively running a photo of a naked Jennifer Aniston on its cover, and began championing the grunge phenomenon. I still clearly remember the day news reached us that Kurt Cobain was dead, and the gloom that pervaded our offices. We received the news the way many Americans reacted to the death of John F. Kennedy: with utter shock and a sense of despondency. Still, the 1990s were, to a large extent, hopeful times. America was moving forward, with Bill Clinton in the lead. I stayed hopeful too, despite not being able to quickly move up the Rolling Stone masthead, as I had foolishly expected to. Three years later, eager to jump-start my own writing career, and convinced that my meager supply of published profiles and film reviews for independent, small outlets (which, like so many of their ilk are now defunct) was enough, I quit my full-time job at Rolling Stone. I remained umbilically tied to the publication. Some of my best friends, whom I see to this day, still worked there, and I occasionally returned to freelance at the magazine as a fact-checker. That tie was severed in the early 2000s after my friends left, and I took a full-time job elsewhere. I have not set foot in the magazine’s offices since. In the past decade, like nearly every publication, Rolling Stone has struggled to stay afloat. Its impending sale is because of several things, including the current state of journalism and the magazine’s inability to attract enough new readers. But it is also hurting from the millions of dollars it had to pay in damages after its publication of a piece on college rape, which was later discredited and retracted. No doubt its decision to go through with that piece was motivated by the desire to stay relevant. But at a time when there is no center for anything — politics, music, visual arts or film — the drive for relevance can be its own sort of death knell. Of course, even after its sale, Rolling Stone might still have a long life ahead. Whatever happens, its mark will live on with at least one former employee.