“Wouldn’t you love to see one of these N.F.L. owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, out, he’s fired.’” With those disparaging words, spoken Friday night at a campaign speech for a Senate candidate in Alabama, the president of the United States ignited a firestorm, which he continued to stoke on Twitter over the weekend. “If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL, or other leagues,” he wrote on Saturday, “he or she should not be allowed to disrespect our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem. If not, YOU’RE FIRED. Find something else to do!” It’s no surprise that a man who seemed to have thought Frederick Douglass was still alive also appears to believe that football was a blessedly apolitical zone until the likes of Colin Kaepernick and Michael Bennett, two prominent athletes who have taken a knee during the national anthem to protest racism, appeared on the gridiron. But Trump couldn’t be more off base. In the pros, and even more at the college level, football was not incidental to the doctrine of segregation and the ideology of white supremacy. It was one of the pillars on which they rested. At the football powerhouses in the American South, the sport resisted integration nearly a decade longer than lunch counters, bus systems, hotels and other strongholds of Jim Crow. Under federal pressure in 1963, for example, the University of Alabama admitted its first two black students. Seven more years passed, however, before the Crimson Tide’s legendary football coach, Paul Bryant, known as Bear, signed his first African-American recruit, Wilbur Jackson. And Bryant did so while he was being sued by civil rights attorneys for his failure to desegregate the team. Charlayne Hunter and Hamilton Holmes broke the color barrier at the University of Georgia in 1961. But the Bulldogs did not field a single black player until 1971. James Meredith famously desegregated the University of Mississippi in 1962 — nine years before Ole Miss allowed an African-American to play for the Rebels. Consider for a moment what this history tells us. Student bodies in previously all-white universities in the South were desegregated in the early 1960s. Legally speaking, nothing stood in the way of a football coach — especially an icon like Bear Bryant — bringing on black players. Nothing, that is, except the power of what we might politely call “local custom.” To put it another way, football was too important to desegregate. In the years before many pro franchises in football or any other sport opened in the Sun Belt, college football was the Saturday sacrament, a regional religion second only to evangelical Christianity. Ross Barnett, the segregationist governor of Mississippi, explicitly linked college football to the policy of massive resistance to civil rights. On the weekend before Meredith entered the state university, Barnett took to the field at halftime of a Mississippi-Kentucky game to declare, in words very much like President Trump’s the other night, “I love and respect our heritage.” Should anyone have missed the racist subtext, the stadium scoreboard displayed the words to a new fight song, “Never No Never,” which ended, “Never shall our emblem go from Colonel Reb to Old Black Joe.” The tawdry record of Southern universities should give no moral superiority to pro football or football outside Dixie. The last N.F.L. team to have an African-American player was, pointedly, the Washington Redskins. As Thomas J. Smith points out in his book “Showdown,” it took direct pressure from the Kennedy administration to get Washington to sign Bobby Mitchell, a halfback and future Hall of Fame inductee, in 1962. Why, one might ask, would the White House care enough to intervene? Because with the civil rights movement marching at home and a battle underway against the Soviet Union for hearts and minds in the nonwhite “developing world,” having an all-white team in the nation’s capital was a liability. The battle for equal rights in pro football continued with the efforts of black quarterbacks to break the color line at that position. The resistance to a black quarterback, which ran through every single pro team, was built upon the dogma of white supremacy. No black player was considered smart enough or leader enough to be the “field general.” Such college stars as Eldridge Dickey never received a chance in the N.F.L. African-American quarterbacks who had breakthrough seasons — Marlin Briscoe with the Denver Broncos in 1968, for example, and James Harris with the Los Angeles Rams in 1974-76 — were demoted from their starting positions and then unceremoniously traded to other teams. The Colin Kaepernick affair of its time, in fact, was the controversy in Los Angeles when the Rams’ owners overruled their own head coach and brought in four white quarterbacks to try to replace Harris. Finally, the Rams shipped him to the San Diego Chargers, where he spent what should have been the prime years of his career as a backup. The Los Angeles Times devoted a multipart series by Skip Bayless (now of Fox Sports) to the racial implications of the situation. Major black politicians, including the future Rep. Maxine Waters, raised Harris’s case in the L.A. City Council and the California State Legislature. Ultimately, the efforts of pioneers like Harris led to the emergence of black quarterbacks, head coaches and general managers in the N.F.L. To this day, the league remains far ahead of major colleges in diversity at the top ranks. Despite such gains, as has been widely reported, seven N.F.L. owners donated $1 million or more to President Trump’s campaign or inaugural coffers. But if the president thought he had leverage over those owners, he guessed wrong. Even Robert Kraft of the New England Patriots — who not only donated to Mr. Trump’s campaign but gave him a Super Bowl ring — issued a statement before Sunday’s kickoffs affirming players’ rights to “peacefully affect social change.” Another prominent Trump supporter, the former Jets coach Rex Ryan, said of Mr. Trump’s statements: “I’m reading these comments and it’s appalling to me and I’m sure it’s appalling to almost any citizen in our country. It should be.” As for the players themselves, about a dozen Baltimore Ravens and Jacksonville Jaguars knelt in protest and others stood with linked arms before Sunday’s first game, which was played in London and went on American television in the morning. Players for the New Orleans Saints, New England Patriots, Miami Dolphins and Tampa Bay Buccaneers did similarly at their 1 p.m. games. Most powerfully, the entire Pittsburgh Steelers squad, including the African-American head coach Mike Tomlin, remained in the locker room during “The Star-Spangled Banner.” “These are very divisive times for our country,” Tomlin said. “For us, as a football team, it’s about us remaining solid. We are not gonna be divided by anything said by anyone.” If Trump sought to divide players from owners and from one another, he appears to have done just the opposite. Whatever he might hear from his base in a supremely red state, Americans aren’t nostalgic for the benighted days when Jim Crow ruled the gridiron. I have long admired the strength, guile and intelligence of N.F.L. players, and on Sunday they gave me renewed cause to honor their social conscience.