Gail Collins: Michelle, welcome aboard. I’m sure people are telling you that being a Times columnist is the best job in the world. It’s actually true, except for the deadline thing. When’s your first column? Michelle Goldberg: Thank you so much! I couldn’t be more thrilled. I feel like Cinderella — which is not to compare the fantastic people at Slate, where I worked until now, to a wicked stepfamily. My first column is on Tuesday. Gail: Well, you’ve picked quite a moment. What’s your take on Donald Trump? I don’t mean “Are you happy he’s president?” How do you see your role as a columnist — articulating a national cry of pain? Re-evaluating him on the basis of what happens each week? The only unacceptable answer is “Crawling under the bed and assuming a fetal position.” It won’t fill 850 words — trust me, I know. Michelle: Remember a few weeks before the election, when Hillary Clinton said, “I’m the last thing standing between you and the apocalypse?” I think she was basically right. Part of the job of a columnist, as I see it, is to bear witness to a nearly inconceivable civic disaster, and part of it is to grope toward an understanding of how it happened and how to move forward. Gail: It’s certainly a different gig than commenting on presidencies past. With Obama it was one heck of a lot of policy. With George W. Bush you had this perfectly normal guy whose tenure got devoured by a war. I’m not usually accused of rooting for Donald Trump but I am truly praying he doesn’t go down that route. Prospects, however, looked a little dim this week. Michelle: Yeah, I think we’re learning that the Constitution may, in fact, be a suicide pact. It’s a source of constant astonishment to me that the country has handed over the means to destroy civilization on this planet to an unhinged lunatic who lost the popular vote and was installed with the aid of a hostile foreign power. It’s such an epic institutional failure that it calls everything we thought we knew about this country’s stability into question. Gail: You’ve written for a lot of publications, online and off. Slate, The New Yorker, The Daily Beast, The New Republic, Salon, The Nation. Tell me a favorite piece, or a truly memorable adventure. Michelle: Well, I’m proud of a piece I wrote for Slate last year about a really sad situation in Twin Falls, Idaho. It’s a fascinating place — a very rural, conservative town, but also a major center of refugee resettlement that’s historically been welcoming to people from all over the world. Anti-refugee activism started rising in tandem with Trump’s presidential campaign, and last year it boiled over around a disturbing, ambiguous case of sexual assault involving three refugee boys — they were 7, 10 and 14 — and a white 5-year-old girl. The story was hyped and hugely distorted by Breitbart and others. It got really ugly — and The Daily Beast has since reported that Russia was involved in trying to organize an anti-immigrant rally in the town. Gail: People often aren’t aware of how much reporting columnists do. I’m in awe of how much time some of my colleagues spend on the road. It’s an underappreciated aspect of the job. Do you have any thoughts about where you’ll be going first? Michelle:  Not yet, but the opportunity to do a lot of travel and reporting is part of what I’m most excited about. I don’t have enough ideas rattling around my head to do this job without getting out, talking to people and seeing things for myself. Gail: Have you been to every state yet? I keep trying to figure out a way to make Wyoming and Nebraska. Michelle: No, I think there are about five that I haven’t been to, including Wyoming. And I’m five for seven in terms of continents — I’d love an excuse to visit Australia, and Antarctica before it melts. Gail: Maybe we can plan a joint excursion to Wyoming. I want to see the folks whose senate vote counts for 67 Californians. My experience with other thinly populated states, however, suggests that they will tell me it’s an excellent plan. Michelle: I’m sure they will! One issue I imagine I’ll keep coming back to is the structural bias in our system that gives white, rural voters so much more political power than diverse, urban ones. Gail:  Michelle, you’re going to be columnizing for both the print paper and the online Times. I’ve always felt that there’s a huge difference between the two jobs — there’s just something about knowing you need to have 850 words (or some days 820 — never did understand how these things get to fit) by a certain time, at which point it might as well be etched in stone. There’s something about those restrictions that I’ve always found weirdly liberating. Are you looking forward more to one than the other? Michelle: I agree that the space restrictions of print can be weirdly freeing, but even more than that, I think the time restrictions are a luxury. At Slate, sometimes something would happen and I’d try to get a piece up three hours later. I like the idea of being forced to slow down and let my thoughts develop. At the same time, I hope some of what I’ve learned about writing for the web will prove useful as the Times goes ever more digital. Gail: I wouldn’t worry about that. You’re going to have a lot of adventures, and I’ll want a full report over drinks in Wyoming. Meanwhile, enjoy!