In a typical year, the University of California, Berkeley, allocates around $200,000 to pay for security at campus protests. But since this past February, the school has spent some $1.5 million. That enormous sum excludes the $1 million the administration expected to spend this week on Milo Yiannopoulos’s chaotic and disorganized “Free Speech Week.” Free Speech Week was supposed to be a four-day rally that brought in big-name provocateurs like Ann Coulter and Steve Bannon. But although Mr. Yiannopoulos spent lots of energy publicizing the event, he appears to have spent very little planning it. He and the Berkeley Patriot, the student group hosting his event, failed to confirm most of their speakers, including Ms. Coulter and Mr. Bannon, and they never filed the paperwork necessary to book campus venues. On Friday, the Berkeley Patriot pulled its support for the event entirely. Predictably, Mr. Yiannopoulos declared at a press conference on Saturday that the Berkeley administration did “everything in its power to crush its own students’ aspirations” to host his event, and vowed nevertheless to speak on Berkeley’s Sproul Plaza “come hell or high water.” The school still expects to spend a handsome sum to secure the unsponsored event. If that seems unwarranted, consider that Berkeley has had to essentially soldier up for unexpectedly violent rallies in their public plaza many times this year. This is a huge distraction for a university already struggling to reduce a crippling budget deficit of $150 million. And it raises a thorny question for those who believe that free speech should trump all else: Should public institutions be spending taxpayer money allocated for higher education on speakers who aren’t there for teaching and learning? I’m intimately familiar with the right-wing tactic of framing anything less than free speech absolutism as “against free speech,” in part because I practiced this tactic as a conservative college student. It’s easy to declare that if low-value speakers like Mr. Yiannopoulos want a campus platform, it’s censorship if a school doesn’t give them one. But as we are seeing with Berkeley, the reality is that “free speech on campus” is not resource-neutral. Indeed, in an effort to make sure Free Speech Week could go on, Janet Napolitano, the president of University of California, even offered to chip in at least $300,000 to help with security. “It’s a cost that the university is bearing to protect the speakers but also to protect the value of free speech,” she said. That’s a bold statement from Ms. Napolitano, as security concerns about Mr. Yiannopoulos’s event resulted in the postponement of a previously scheduled talk by Anna Tsing, a leading anthropologist. I doubt Ms. Tsing’s anthropology lecture would have cost Berkeley and the University of California system anywhere near $1 million. And I suspect that if Ms. Tsing were sharing the campus with a conservative like Yuval Levin or Walter Williams on the same day, neither speech would have to be canceled. Which is why spending seven figures’ worth of student fees and taxpayer money to host Mr. Yiannopoulos is less about defending free speech than it is about supporting provocation for its own sake. Undoubtedly, left-wing “antifa” groups have contributed to the security risks and costs at Berkeley, taking the bait that speakers like Mr. Yiannopoulos lay out and battling far-right militia groups who show up looking for a fight. But we should keep in mind, as the historian Mark Bray points out, that antifa groups form specifically to counter white supremacist and Nazi violence, having done so from the days of Hitler and Mussolini. Antifa groups are a symptom, not a cause, of the threat of white supremacist violence. For the most part, both sides have little to do with college students who are, by and large, angry to see their campus overrun by outsiders. Universities have a duty to keep campuses safe, not in the service of paternalism, but in the service of providing a suitable learning environment for students. It’s easy to claim that denying a speaker — even one like Mr. Yiannopoulos or Richard Spencer — is a kind of epistemological harm that makes students worse off. But so too are the acts of shutting down popular facilities for security purposes, and bringing in less-experienced security personnel who needlessly escalate violence with students, and transforming the campus into a microcosm of a police state. The question of which campus speakers warrant security funding is real and challenging — especially considering that a speech by Ben Shapiro, a mainstream conservative who used to speak at Berkeley with barely a mention, recently cost the school $600,000 in security expenses. But the escalation of security costs isn’t a response to conservative thought. It is the only way schools can respond to a deliberate right-wing strategy, driven by outside groups, to inflict disruptive and deliberately offensive speakers on campuses, and thus bait the left into outrage. The audience for right-wing speakers like Mr. Yiannopoulos is not college students themselves, but rather the culture warriors on either side of the aisle who respond to seeing campus communities in distress. It’s true that we’re hearing fewer cries of campus censorship since at least five universities denied Mr. Spencer a speaking engagement after his “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Va., in August turned violent and deadly. But we shouldn’t be fooled into thinking that the only problem with a speaker like Mr. Spencer is the offensiveness of his views. It may feel easier to draw the line at Nazis and overt white supremacists, but that doesn’t excuse us from thinking seriously — as we should have a long time ago — about educational standards for who deserves a college platform and financial resources. Whereas conservatives politicians have traditionally warned against reckless public spending, in some cases by attempting to slash entire academic divisions and programs, they’re suddenly urging public institutions to hand over their wallets to bring a person to campus who’s known for putting students’ photos on screen to publicly mock them during his talks. Mr. Yiannopoulos has already targeted and doxxed two Berkeley students he disagrees with, posting their photos and identifying information on social media, which puts these students in direct danger of being harassed and threatened. When speakers like these cost hundreds of thousands of dollars but add scant academic value, the issue is more complicated than the radical or offensive nature of their views. We do need more conservative voices on campus. But a free speech movement that has elevated expensive provocateurs over conservative intellectuals has only undermined the cause of campus intellectual diversity.