The memory haunts Bill Carpenter even 50 years after his tour in Vietnam ended. An elderly villager dressed in white had just carted geese over the dark Song Ve River when he crossed paths with Mr. Carpenter’s platoon — a unit known as Tiger Force. The villager sputtered in fear. The angry troops told him to be quiet. He couldn’t. The gunshots that struck the man down still shake Mr. Carpenter from his sleep. “There was no reason to kill that old man,” Mr. Carpenter, a former Army specialist, said in a recent interview. The killing was one of dozens of attacks by Tiger Force during 1967 on unarmed civilians, including rapes and torture, in a spate of violence that was covered up by the Pentagon but revealed in a series of stories by The Toledo Blade in 2003. Records showed the unit, an element of the 101st Airborne Division, carried out what’s believed to be the longest series of atrocities by a platoon in the war. They hurled grenades into bunkers where women and children were hiding, shot prisoners and then cut off their ears and scalps for souvenirs, murdered villagers for no reason and left many of them behind in mass graves. Military experts who examined the Tiger Force case said the troops were acting out of rage over the death of comrades, frustration over fighting a canny enemy and fear for their own safety. But some of the soldiers themselves spoke years later of orders that made them treat civilians like adversaries, let them fire weapons with little clear justification and measured success from body counts — the supposed enumeration of enemy dead that was likely to include anyone killed by American troops. As with the My Lai Massacre in 1968, in which American troops killed hundreds of women, children and old men in hamlets near the Tiger Force operations area, commanders had an arm’s length role in either encouraging or covering up what happened. Records show that members of Tiger Force shot or stabbed at least 81 civilians in violation of military law. But based on The Blade’s interviews with former soldiers and Vietnamese civilians, the platoon is believed to have killed hundreds of unarmed villagers in the Central Highlands between May and November of 1967. “We weren’t keeping count,” former Pvt. Ken Kerney said in 2003. “I knew it was wrong, but it was an acceptable practice.” The Army began a four-year investigation of Tiger Force only in 1971. It lasted four years and led to recommendations that 18 soldiers be charged with murder, assault and dereliction of duty. But in the end, no one was prosecuted, and the case was concealed in the military archives for the next three decades. “They just buried it,” said a former platoon medic, Rion Causey. Tiger Force was created in 1965 as an elite unit to defeat an enemy that operated in underground tunnels, set deadly booby traps and disappeared into the jungle as they were counterattacked. The platoon’s 45 members were expected to survive for weeks at a time in the bush as they searched for enemy camps and called in air strikes. But in May 1967, as American commanders grew frustrated by a war in which their foes could blend into the civilian populace, Tiger Force was sent to Quang Ngai province to move civilians into relocation centers so the farmers couldn’t grow rice, depriving the enemy of a crucial food supply. Rather than soldiers fighting soldiers, they were destroying peoples’ lives, uprooting them from their homes. It was hateful work, and a dozen Tiger Force veterans told The Blade that it led them to become more brutal and begin taking out their aggression on the people they were supposed to protect. First they killed prisoners, but soon they were gunning down defenseless civilians. Two former platoon members told Army investigators that many members from the unit had been drinking beer all afternoon on July 23, 1967, when they came upon the old man with the geese. He was a carpenter named Dao Hue, 68, on his way home to his family. When he began babbling in terror a sergeant clubbed him with an M-16 rifle. As a medic treated the man’s wounds while he knelt before him, the platoon leader, Lt. James Hawkins, lifted Mr. Dao and shot him in the face with a CAR-15 rifle. Mr. Carpenter said he tried to stop Lieutenant Hawkins, but the platoon leader threatened to shoot him for interfering. Mr. Dao’s niece, Tam Hau, told The Blade that she and another villager pulled her uncle’s body from the grass the next morning. “Even after 30 years, it hurts,” Ms. Tam said. “I ask myself why my uncle had to die.” Mr. Hawkins, 76, who retired from the military in 1978 as a major, could not be reached. But in an interview with The Blade in 2003, he said he shot the elderly carpenter because he was “making a lot of noise. I eliminated that right there.” In the following weeks, more civilians were executed by the soldiers in a chain of atrocities that forever changed the Song Ve Valley, survivors told The Blade. The platoon members shot and killed four elderly farmers in a rice paddy as they ran for cover. Later, the soldiers led two partially blind men found wandering in the valley to a bend of the river and shot them. One farmer, Nguyen Dam, recalled the stench lingering in the air from the bodies. “We couldn’t bury them one by one,” Mr. Nguyen told The Blade. “We had to bury them all in one grave.” Some platoon members began a ritual later documented by investigators: severing the ears of the dead and fashioning them into necklaces. The platoon’s top commander, Lt. Col. Gerald Morse, named the battalion’s three companies — A, B and C — Assassins, Barbarians and Cutthroats, hoisting the names on a sign over battalion headquarters.  The platoon fired at civilians after being told to kill anything that moved, former solders told investigators, but team leaders enforced a code of silence. “The commanders told me, ‘What goes on here, stays here,’ ” Mr. Kerney told The Blade. Tiger Force’s violence reached a peak when the soldiers faced fierce fighting with North Vietnamese soldiers in a neighboring province in September. Within 18 days, five platoon members were killed and 12 were wounded. The surviving troops were left bitter and angry, Mr. Causey recalled. Over 33 days, he said, Tiger Force rampaged across the province. “Everybody was all jacked up,” he said in a recent interview. “They just went in there and wiped out the civilian population.” The platoon’s commanders told the soldiers, and reporters for The Blade years later, that the shootings were permissible because they were in a “free-fire zone,” where American troops in Vietnam could fire at will without approval of commanders, an approach that led to civilian casualties throughout Vietnam. But that policy did not permit firing on unarmed civilians, military experts say. Many platoon members said the attacks on civilians ended when Tiger Force was compelled to battle enemy soldiers during the Tet Offensive and was later replenished with new men. The Army began investigating Tiger Force after a soldier from another unit told officials that a member of the force had beheaded an infant. Summaries of the investigation, which included dozens of sworn statements from former platoon members, went to the White House and the Army secretary’s office between 1971 and 1973. The final report was filed away in 1975, with no public announcement. In response to recent questions about Tiger Force, the Army said in a statement it has implemented training and special programs to change the culture of the military and rectify the breakdowns that took place in Vietnam. “The modern Army is also much more sensitive to the severity of these issues, and better able and willing to deal with them immediately and appropriately,” said Dov Schwartz, an Army spokesman. American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan have carried out war crimes, too, including the abuses at Abu Ghraib prison in 2004. The government called that an isolated incident not indicative of the behavior of American personnel in the war. But several human rights organizations, including the Red Cross, said it was part of a much larger pattern of torture and abuse by American military personnel at detention centers in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere. Mr. Causey, who earned a doctorate in nuclear engineering after the war, said lasting reform in the Army requires bringing justice to war crime cases, even when they are decades old. The Tiger Force commanders were never held accountable for what occurred, despite compelling evidence, he said. “To put that kind of time into an investigation and not hold the command level responsible,” said Causey, “it sends the wrong message to people today.” “You have to own up to what happened,” he said. “You have to prevent it from happening again.”