Bret Stephens: So I’m just back from Down Under, Gail. It was my first visit there, and all of my expectations were upended. “On the Beach” and the “Mad Max” series gave me a sense of Australia as the land of the apocalypse. Actually, it’s lovely and people there seem quite relaxed. Meanwhile, President Trump made a speech at the United Nations. How did things look at the edge of the abyss, East River edition? Gail Collins: Reading your column from Australia, I was wondering if you could go anywhere on the planet where the locals weren’t saying: “Oh my God, Donald Trump!” American visitors to Antarctica are probably greeted by penguins flapping their wings in alarm. Trump’s speech at the U.N. triggered a terrifying series of exchanges between our crazy president and North Korea’s crazy dictator. Back in the day, I remember doing duck-and-cover exercises in grade school and listening to the nuns announce — rather cheerfully, I felt — that the world would probably come to an end before we made it to junior high. Never thought I’d be reliving those days in the 21st century but I have to say that Trump has me wondering whether we’re heading for a real nuclear crisis. Bret: Well, when it comes to Trump, it can always get worse: As someone once said about him, he’s the sort of guy who always finds a new bottom. Look, here’s the dilemma for a person with my foreign-policy views. I think we need to take a tough line with North Korea. I believe the nuclear deal with Iran was a bad one and should be renegotiated. And I’m glad to hear an American president speak publicly about the horror unfolding in Venezuela. Problem is, that president is Trump. And I have a hard time believing that behind the rhetoric there is a strategy, much less the ability to execute it. Gail: This is no time to be backtracking on Iran. It’d just be another signal to North Korea that you can’t negotiate with Donald Trump. Bret: The other day, in Canberra, I spoke with some Australian government officials who seem to be considerably more mystified by what’s going on at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue than in Pyongyang. Kim Jong-un? Oh, that fellow is predictable — unlike your guy. It doesn’t help that the administration still hasn’t named an ambassador to Australia. It’s no fun being an American ally in the Age of Trump. Gail: Speaking of people who can’t negotiate with the president, what’s your take on the war between the White House and the N.F.L.? Bret: For the president of the United States publicly to call someone a “son of a bitch” is horrifying. Disgusting. Disgraceful. And, of course, par for the Trumpian course. Besides, as the old line goes, it’s worse than a crime; it’s a mistake. Trump just lifted Colin Kaepernick’s star, gave N.F.L. players and owners no choice but to rally round him, and then expanded his losing fight to the N.B.A. as well. Not smart! I’m guessing we agree on this. Let’s talk about health care instead. Susan Collins says she going to vote “No” on Graham-Cassidy. Gail: And John McCain! Looks like the new health care bill is DOA. That’s the only really good news I’ve heard all month. The Graham-Cassidy bill is a disaster, unless your only goal is to take money away from states that worked hard to implement health care reform and give it to the states that didn’t bother. We haven’t discussed this but can I tell you that I’ve always disliked Lindsey Graham? He’s one of those Senators Who Can Talk to Reporters, but that doesn’t make him any less terrible. Bret: We are never going to agree on Senators: I love Graham like I loved Joe Lieberman. He’s easily one of the best legislators in Congress today, and by far the best senator South Carolina has ever produced (admittedly a low bar). His foreign policy views are basically my own, and I think he’s always approached his work with integrity and a sense of humor. Plus, I like what I’ve read about Graham-Cassidy. Retain a lot of the Obamacare subsidies, but return money and authority to the states to spend it according to their own health care needs and political predilections. I was really struck by a terrific Op-Ed in our pages by Philip Klein, the managing editor of The Washington Examiner. Key line: “Any national health care system that assumes one party will control Washington for all eternity is doomed to fail. New Yorkers would have much less to fear about a Trump presidency if the president didn’t control agencies that set policies for the entire country.” I bet that by the time this presidency is over, your favorite amendment is going to be the 10th. Gail: Actually I brought Graham up so we could have a fight. Now that you’re down on Paul Ryan, we need somebody to squabble over. I’m very cynical about states’ rights arguments. Everybody — my side included — uses it whenever the federal government does something they don’t like and drops it whenever the federal government does something they love. And the founding fathers who got so wrapped up in local control were usually worried about protecting slavery. Graham’s bill is just an attempt to get under the no-filibuster wire with Obamacare repeal. Totally cynical. Bret: Let’s keep arguing for a bit. We can disagree about the merits of the Affordable Care Act. We can’t disagree on the fact that a great deal of this country hates it. And to the extent that the A.C.A. centralizes control in Washington, we’re going to be tearing ourselves to pieces over it for a long time to come. That makes me think that Democrats should want a compromise bill like Graham-Cassidy that gives blue states the chance keep Obamacare and red states the chance to change it. I also think that there’s a bit of sneakiness on the Democratic side, too. Isn’t it true that many progressives and liberals see the A.C.A. as just a way station on the road to single payer? Gail: That’d be O.K. with me. But I see the sneakiness on the other side. Many of Obamacare’s opponents are focused on the fact that the law requires folks to buy health insurance if they can afford to. That would seem to be the most conservative position in the world. You have to take responsibility for yourself; otherwise if something bad happens you’ll probably end up in a hospital receiving extremely expensive taxpayer-funded treatment. Yet the requirement drives Republicans nuts. The same people who demand that families pay for school lunches don’t want them to have to buy health insurance. Bret: Totally agree. Republicans are so backward on this issue that they sound exactly like, um, Barack Obama when he made a devastating case against the individual mandate in one of his early debates with Hillary Clinton in 2008. Gail: True. Poor Hillary. This is what being serious about the issues will get you. Bret: O.K., I couldn’t resist sneaking that in. But the main conservative objection to Obamacare has less to do with the individual mandate than it does with the federal government’s ever-increasing hand in managing 17 percent or so of the economy. Meantime, Germany just re-elected Angela Merkel as chancellor to a fourth term. I’m curious to know your take. She’s the most successful politician in the world, the steady hand at the shaky European tiller and a feminist role model of a nonfeminist sort. Does that tell us anything important about the state of women today? Gail: You know there’s a lot of argument about whether Hillary lost because she was a woman. I think partly, probably. But in the long run I am utterly, totally confident that there will be a woman in the White House just because — they’re good at this stuff. Which Merkel demonstrates. So it’s onward and upward. Welcome home, Bret.