It is a rite of passage that I have experienced: brand-new lieutenants introducing themselves to their platoons of a few dozen enlisted Marines. It is a powerful experience for any new officer. Now consider the stakes when that lieutenant is a woman — and the platoon is a front-line infantry unit. The Marine Corps is the most male-dominated of the armed services, and the infantry is the most male-dominated bastion of the corps. The moment will be electric, and historic. Soon enough it will also be a reality. On Monday, the Marine Corps graduated the first woman ever from its famously grueling Infantry Officer Course. (The Marine Corps has withheld the lieutenant’s name, at her request.) Of 36 women who have attempted the course since 2012, she is the sole finisher. I recall driving down Quantico roads and passing filthy, sweat-drenched former classmates from the Basic School (the gender-integrated, six-month course for new lieutenants from all parts of the corps) going through the Infantry Officer Course. They carried weapons and heavy packs, and one time, were red-faced and sputtering from being tear-gassed without masks. About a quarter of all applicants, almost all of them men, fail, 10 percent on the first day. Infantry is the hallowed “tip of the spear” for the Marine Corps, among the first combatants into war zones. In keeping with the ethos of “every Marine a rifleman,” all Marines learn basic infantry skills, but only about 19 percent of the Corps is actually infantry; a few percent more encompass other combat arms specialties like artillery and armored vehicles. The rest of the corps supports them, whether through logistics, communications or gunfire from the air. Only since early 2016 have combat arms occupational specialties — including the infantry — been open to women. Women have made it into the infantry as enlisted Marines, but until now, none have become infantry officers. Gender integration in the combat arms has been a source of much passionate debate within the military. About a year ago, the Pentagon released the results of a 2012 study by the think tank CNA that found that 76.5 percent of male Marines who have served in ground combat units were opposed to women in combat arms (56.4 percent of noncombat male Marines were, too). But this study was done at least three years before there were widespread integration efforts, including the corps’ Ground Combat Element Integrated Task Force, a unit created to study gender integration. None of the infantrymen had ever seen female Marines meeting the same physical standards as them. Now they have. Similar concerns about unit cohesion were also debated in the wake of the reversal of the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy on gay troops. Before the policy change, 59.4 percent of Marines who had been deployed in combat believed that allowing homosexuals to serve openly would hurt unit effectiveness. But one year after the change, a Palm Center study found no impact on military readiness, unit cohesion, recruitment or retention. Moreover, studies from RAND have found that the “performance of a group influences its cohesion more than cohesion influences performance.” But no number of facts, stats and averages can prepare someone for the actual experience of serving on the front lines. By integrating only women who have already met the infantry’s difficult training standards, the corps acknowledges that military readiness is paramount. At the end of the day, this newly minted infantry officer will prove herself by the way she carries herself around her fellow Marines. Peer leadership, too, will be important. Her classmates have seen her perform and can be powerful allies as she integrates into the operating forces. As Eleanor Taylor, the first female Canadian infantry company commander, said in 2013, “Initial infantry training is a crucible.” She continued, “If the training is properly executed and she is successful, she will earn fierce loyalty from her peers and will be fully integrated into the team.” At the same time, this female officer can be a key tactical asset to her unit if they deploy to Afghanistan, where Marines have returned this year. Female troops are invaluable for searching houses and communicating with local women, gaining access to spaces and information that, because of local custom, male troops cannot get. Her integration can expand her unit’s capabilities and help save lives. What remains to be seen is how readily she will be accepted at the small-unit level, rife with locker-room shoving, wrestling and pornography — all of which, since she’s made it this far, she’s most likely seen already. The first few training exercises she does with her troops will show them her strength and, ideally, garner the support of small-unit leaders who will back her up. Through pulling heavy cables, throwing down one another in martial arts training and running in 115-degree Iraqi heat, my senior enlisted Marines helped me become the officer I was. They offered suggestions, but reminded me that command presence comes from within oneself. Top-down, the Marine Corps brass continues to look for ways to battle undercurrents of misogyny, especially in the wake of the Marines United nude photo-sharing scandal this spring. At the same time, the Marines United perpetrators were not solely infantrymen; a great many served in noncombat units. Bigotry and misogyny know no occupational specialty, neither in the Marine Corps nor in the world outside. Since leaving the corps, I’ve earned a Ph.D. in materials science and worked in technology — fields for which women, just decades ago, were deemed unfit. Though it is a long road to eliminating workplace sexism and harassment, we are at a hinge point in history when it comes to gender integration; the infantry is just the latest field to open up. In that vein, the corps is developing professional military education; leadership is convening focus groups of active-duty Marines to examine gender bias and social cohesion. Proactively acknowledging preconceived ideas about gender in small-group discussions can be productive. Sgt. Danielle Beck, who participated in the 2015 Ground Combat Element Integrated Task Force as an antitank missileman, said, “We got to a point where we all talked about it openly, and no one was mad about it; we just talked professionally.” I anticipate there will be little fanfare from the Marine Corps regarding the graduation. As The Times has noted, the Army’s graduation ceremony for its first female infantry soldiers made no mention that some of them were women — and that is as it should be. Monday’s graduation is important because it paves the way for women in combat arms not to be a big deal in the future. Like her male classmates, this officer has met an exceptionally high standard. Soon, she will be just one more Marine infantry lieutenant, picking up her first platoon.