Given the fiery responses to Colin Kaepernick’s protest during the national anthem — taking a knee, a gesture now being adopted by a wave of professional athletes — you would think that it was a militant motion, full of anger and menace, akin to the Black Power salutes raised by Tommie Smith and John Carlos at the 1968 Olympics. But kneeling during the national anthem is a gesture of humility, not ominous ire. In youth sports, players take a knee when another player is hurt. It is an acknowledgment of the vulnerable humanity that, for the moment, has been obscured by the intense competition of the game. Taking a knee in that context is, like a religious genuflection, a gesture of self-surrender before the greater reality of human suffering. Likewise, when black players take a knee during the national anthem to protest police violence against African-Americans, they are making a gesture of pain and distress. They are putting America in a more honest context — our “Star-Spangled Banner” dimly seen through the mists of deep injury. It is like flying an American flag upside down in a moment of emergency. Still, black players kneeling in this way has a disorienting quality. Clearly, however humble and sincere Kaepernick’s intentions, his critics have decided that he is disrespecting a growing list of American institutions: the flag, fallen service members — even the perceived line between playing professional sports and speaking out on issues of national importance. Perhaps that is why so many players, eager to sympathize but wary of joining Kaepernick completely, have instead stood and locked arms. Yet by doing so, they have, deliberately or not, diluted the original gesture of kneeling. Standing with linked arms during the national anthem could signify any number of things, from protest against racial injustice, to a gentle dissent from a style of protest that has alienated so many people. Likewise, the decision of some teams to stay in the locker room during the playing of the national anthem is ambiguous. Even players raising their fists lacks the relevance, and the unsettling resonance, of the Black Power salute from which the gesture is derived. The unique gesture that embodied a cry against, primarily, the murder by the police of unarmed black citizens — and, as an extension of those actions, a criminal-justice system that countenances those murders — has now been customized, if you will. The primal act that has incited so much passion has been marginalized as a gesture of protest. President Trump seemed to understand the significance of variation as concession when he announced Sunday afternoon that standing with linked arms was acceptable, while kneeling was not. There was something disquieting about Shahid Khan, the owner of the Jacksonville Jaguars and a Trump supporter who contributed $1 million to the president’s inaugural committee, joining arms with his players, who were standing, not kneeling. Trump’s dispensation for standing with linked arms must have come as a relief to the white team owners who, despite their loud defenses of the players’ right to air their views, still have yet to make a job offer to Kaepernick, a very talented quarterback, effectively blackballing him. Three-quarters of the players in America’s most popular and most brutal sport are black. There is something gladiatorial about professional football, for all the money being made by athletes whose wealth will be of little use to them should they sink into dementia, beginning as early as their retirement in their mid-30s. Here are these black athletes about to be hurt for the enjoyment of so many white fans, even as the white world tolerates the “lawful” injury of ordinary black people. Such a situation could well incite a fury of anger and frustration. Yet with the act of kneeling, these rare, gifted, often doomed human beings are shrouding their protest in a kind of self-abasement; a display of vulnerability and piety in the face of iron injustice. It is a humility couched in a majesty of pride, dignity, strength and unusual accomplishment. Kneeling in protest is out of the playbook of Dr. King, not Malcolm X.