This week the F.B.I. released its annual tally of crime in the United States, and the picture it paints is troubling. In 2016, there were 17,250 homicides, an increase of more than 8.5 percent from the previous year. This comes on the heels of a 12 percent rise in 2015, bringing the total increase over two years to nearly 22 percent — the largest two-year increase in homicide in 25 years. Violent crime — which includes rapes, robberies and assaults, in addition to homicides — is also up, but less so, rising 4 percent, after a 4 percent increase in 2015. What to make of this two-year spike in death and violence is unclear, but you can be certain of this: Partisans on all sides will seek to spin this situation to their advantage. And that’s a problem that stunts productive conversation about solutions. Criminal justice reformers will worry that fear of violent crime could slow the momentum of their movement. As a result, they’ll play down the data that says it’s increasing. They’ll say that it’s too soon to call this a trend, that a few neighborhoods in a few cities are driving the numbers, and remind us that overall rates of violence remain near historical lows. Opponents of true reform, including President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions, will do far worse. They will likely use the latest numbers to push the culture-war-fueling narrative about “American carnage” that Mr. Trump described in his Inaugural Address. They’ll double down on outdated tough-on-crime strategies like aggressive prosecutions, mandatory minimum sentencing and drug education and follow a strategy that my colleague David Kennedy, a criminal justice researcher and director of the National Network for Safe Communities, recently called a “criminologist’s nightmare. And then nothing will change. When it comes to how the country deals with crime, impasse and stalemate will win the day. This is not new: Progressives consistently argue that crime is simply the result of socioeconomic root causes such as poverty, unemployment, and poor education. But the fact that crime rates declined during the Great Depression and remained low during the Great Recession indicate that’s not the case — in reality, crime rates often rise and fall independently of such measures. Conservatives often assert that crime is a matter of values, even though research shows that most people living in dangerous neighborhoods despise the violence they see in their communities. For years, some scholars claimed that mass incarceration was caused by the war on drugs, but it was the aggressive punishment of violence, not drugs, that pushed our incarceration rates sky high. Law-and-order relics link drug use and violence. But today’s drug epidemic, the opioid crisis, took hold years before the rise in violent crime and has few proven connections with violence to date. Many argue that guns are the crux of that problem, so they push for legal restrictions on them. Most gun crimes, however, are perpetrated with weapons that are already illegally possessed under the laws on the books today. Others insist that guns are the solution, as they could allow law-abiding people to protect themselves from crime — even though states with permissive gun laws tend to have higher rates of gun violence, and that households with guns are more, not less, likely to suffer gun injuries. We need a new national dialogue on crime, one that is less about ideology and more about evidence. The current conversation oversimplifies complex issues, emphasizes blame over responsibility, and encourages deadlock instead of progress. We need to move from argument winning to problem solving, recognizing that all these issues are related to one another, and especially to the violence that needlessly claims so many lives. The conventional wisdom tells us if we want to reduce violent crime, we should look elsewhere: to poverty, culture, drugs or guns. Decades of data says otherwise: When a colleague and I surveyed over 1,400 studies on anti-violence efforts, we learned that to control violence, one must account for it directly by focusing on the small numbers of places, people and behaviors that disproportionately drive the problem. The best approach is to tackle the hardest cases with a combination of empathy and resolve, offering assistance if it will be accepted but also accountability for brutal behavior. Here’s a proven approach that deserves more support: Mr. Kennedy’s National Network for Safe Communities supports local efforts to reduce violence, minimize incarceration, and improve police-community relationships. Civic, community and criminal justice leaders confront criminals with a simple message: “The killing must end now. If you let us, we will help you. If you make us, we will stop you.” Those willing to turn away from violence are offered services and support, while those who will not are confronted with coordinated law enforcement action. A systematic review found that this strategy reduced crime and violence in nine out of 10 studies, with homicide reductions of 34 percent to 63 percent. Let’s not deny or diminish the immense suffering of victims of crime and communities that are plagued by violence. And let’s refuse to exploit that suffering by using it to sow fear among Americans. Setting aside the politics will give us the best chance to stop the senseless killing in our country.