This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Alabama: President Trump traveled to Alabama on Friday to implore Republicans there to vote for incumbent Senator Luther Strange in Tuesday’s primary. They didn’t listen to the president. Roy Moore, a proud bigot, won instead. If you think I’m being too harsh in describing him that way, read his own words. He has argued that homosexuality should be illegal, Muslims should be barred from serving in Congress, 9/11 may have been divine retribution and Barack Obama wasn’t born here. Moore is even Trumpier than Trump. He is also likely to become Alabama’s next United States senator. Democratic wins: Meanwhile, the Democrats got good news in Florida, flipping a Republican seat in the State Senate. They also won a New Hampshire State House seat in a district Trump won handily last year. As I’ve mentioned before, the special election results since Trump’s inauguration have been excellent for Democrats. Tuesday’s winner in Florida, Annette Taddeo, was a victim of Russian dirty tricks in the 2016 campaign and told her story to my colleague Michael Barbaro in a podcast last year. Devastation: It is home to 3.4 million American citizens, more than Iowa or Nevada and more than Alaska, Vermont and the Dakotas combined. It is Puerto Rico, and the situation there is desperate. Hundreds of thousands of people lack electricity and drinking water, as a result of damage from Hurricane Maria. So far, President Trump and Congress have shown no urgency about the crisis. That’s in stark contrast with their reaction to other recent storms to hit the United States, Phillip Carter argues in Slate. After Harvey and Irma, “tens of thousands of troops, first responders, and government officials snapped into immediate action, with direct attention by the president and his top aides.” But when Maria devastates “two offshore American territories,” Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, “the response pales.” Three catastrophic — and catastrophically expensive — storms in a row prove that the federal government’s “current model for natural-disaster preparation is deeply flawed,” argues The New Republic’s Emily Atkin. As climate change worsens the impacts of severe weather, “the biggest short-term mistake Congress could make would be to delay approval of necessary funding,” she writes. “But the biggest long-term mistake would be to consider this year a fluke.” Ducking the issue: I was disappointed by Senator Lisa Murkowski’s refusal to take a stand on the Graham-Cassidy health care bill, despite the damage it would do to Alaska, her state. (You can see the details in a new independent analysis.) The good news is that Graham-Cassidy still failed, with Republican leaders deciding not to bring it up for a vote this week. The bad news is those same leaders are already thinking about drafting a new bill that would take insurance from millions of people, including the residents of Alaska: “GOP already eyeing next chance to revive Obamacare repeal,” Politico reports. That’s why the opposition to Trumpcare must go on, as I argued in my column this week. Any volunteers? The surprise retirement of Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee continues the wave of early Republican congressional retirements. And those retirements will be a big help to Democrats in 2018: Open seats are much easier to win than incumbents’ seats. Like the Alabama Senate primary, the G.O.P.’s battle to replace Corker will likely yield “a competitive primary that pits more establishment Republicans against candidates who identify with the Trump brand of Republicanism,” writes the Cook Political Report’s Jennifer Duffy. “The possibility that Republicans could hold a brutal primary that may produce a less than ideal nominee provides more incentive” for Democrats to field a strong candidate. The most imposing possible Democratic candidate is Phil Bredesen, the 73-year-old former two-term governor. James Mackler, a 44-year-old attorney, has already entered the race. But it will be a tough race for any Democrat. The Republicans have won the last two presidential contests there by more than 20 percentage points and the last four by at least 14 points. After Corker’s announcement, the Cook Political Report changed its rating for the race from “Solid Republican” to “Likely Republican.” Politically, the state is no longer the same place that sent both Al Gore Sr. and Al Gore Jr. to the Senate. In The Times: Eric Reid, the San Francisco 49ers player who explained why he knelt during the national anthem in a recent op-ed, spoke with The Times’s Jennifer Parker in a Facebook Live video on Tuesday. You can watch it here.