While the Supreme Court has taken the Trump administration’s travel ban appeal off its calendar, there is something important to remember: Just because a case is moot, as this one appears to be, doesn’t mean that nothing happened. A great deal has happened in the eight months since the newly inaugurated president unleashed his first Muslim travel ban, fulfilling his campaign pledge to impose “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.” It was a bizarre and terrifying weekend — terrifying not only for those whose valid travel documents had without notice become worthless but also for the rest of us, plunged suddenly into the shocking new reality of Donald Trump’s America. Blocked by the courts, the first travel ban morphed into the second, and now, on the eve of a scheduled Supreme Court argument, we have travel ban 3.0, with a few fig leaves added. (While it’s true that North Korea, a new country added to the previous all-Muslim list, is not a Muslim country, it’s also true that a grand total of 109 visas were issued last year to North Koreans, and subjecting those individuals to exacting scrutiny, as surely happened, is not likely to have overtaxed our national resources.) Unlike the first ban, issued in the apparent absence of any legal advice, and unlike the second, on which lawyers seemingly functioned while holding their noses and their breath, this one is the product of some smart lawyering. It was clearly designed to address the main statutory flaw that the lower courts found in the earlier versions, which was that under the Immigration and Nationality Act, the president lacks unilateral authority to issue a categorical ban on the entry of entire nationalities without a very precise reason. The official explanation of the new order stresses the multidepartmental consultation and the summerlong study of the world’s nations that went into selecting the eight countries to which the new open-ended ban applies. This effort to snatch a case from the arms of a potentially hostile Supreme Court is dramatic but not unprecedented. In November 2005, the George W. Bush administration suddenly announced that it was transferring Jose Padilla, a United States citizen held in military custody, without charges, for more than three years, to the civilian criminal justice system to face charges of aiding terrorism. The reason for the sudden rush? Mr. Padilla’s lawyers had filed a Supreme Court appeal challenging his military confinement, and the government’s response to his petition was due within days. I don’t know the back story, but most likely, lawyers in the solicitor general’s office told the White House that there were no plausible arguments they could offer in defense of Mr. Padilla’s treatment. In any event, the ploy worked; voting 6 to 3, the justices refused to hear Mr. Padilla’s case, which Justice John Paul Stevens had described at an earlier stage as having “at stake nothing less than the essence of a free society.” If the justices find the pending travel ban case to be moot, they will probably take the usual step after a finding of mootness and vacate the lower court decisions that found the second travel ban to be invalid. That means that the opinions of the United States Courts of Appeals for the Fourth and Ninth Circuits will be wiped off the books, rendered nonexistent, not to be cited in the future. But once again, that doesn’t mean that those rulings didn’t happen. A majority of judges in those two circuits — not the “so-called judges” of President Trump’s fevered imagination, but actual life-tenured, Senate-confirmed federal judges — flexed their muscles and stood up to the president. That’s important. The judicial muscle needs exercise just like any other. Disused, it wastes away. Overused, it leads judges to trample on executive and legislative authority. Did the Appeals Court judges hit the right balance? We won’t get a definitive legal answer, but the answer surely lies not in law but in politics. Ultimately, the judgment on this episode will come not from the courts but from the people. Vacating the lower court decisions won’t make the brief the administration filed last month in the Supreme Court vanish. The brief and the argument it makes survive and still merit close study. Two sentences deep in the brief, on Page 44 of 84, state the heart of the argument: “The Order clearly finds that the temporary suspensions and refugee cap are in the national interest. That should be the end of the matter.” Really? Because President Trump says so? Because judges owe him complete and utter deference? That’s the system the president wants but it isn’t, thankfully, the system we have. Is it the system we want? The brief presents a still deeper issue on Page 77, explaining why the Fourth Circuit, in concluding that the travel ban amounted to unconstitutional religious discrimination, was wrong to take into account an offhand statement President Trump made when he signed the first travel ban order. The title of that order was “Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States.” The president ad-libbed: “We all know what that means.” The “passing remark” was “at least ambiguous,” the brief maintains; it is “reasonably understood to refer to terrorist groups like ISIL and Al Qaeda, not all Muslims.” Further, the brief continues, the actual terms of the order “do not relate to Islam in any way.” Then comes this paragraph: “At a minimum, the Fourth Circuit should have resolved any uncertainty in favor of, not against, the Order’s validity. The ‘presumption of regularity’ that attaches to all federal officials’ actions carries the utmost force with respect to the president himself. The presumption, which is magnified here by respect for the head of a coordinate branch, counsels crediting the Order’s stated national-security purpose absent the clearest showing to the contrary. In light of these principles, the Fourth Circuit erred in refusing to credit the order’s stated objective of combating terrorism and instead determining that it is based on animosity toward Islam or Muslims generally.” For the origin and meaning of the “presumption of regularity,” the brief cites one precedent, United States v. Chemical Foundation Inc., from 1926. A friend of the court brief filed by a group of former high-ranking executive branch officials argues that this is a substantial over-reading of an old case that established a “quite modest” principle that had nothing to do with the presidency and didn’t call for any special deference to the Executive Branch. Rather, “The presumption began as a way of filling in minor evidentiary gaps, usually related to procedural or technical formalities” such as whether a document was filed in court with the correct seal. The brief explains that the old cases built up the “general working principle” that official actions would be presumed correct in the absence of evidence to the contrary. It adds: “The government, here, seeks to inflate this modest presumption into a high barrier thwarting meaningful judicial review.” Robert M. Loeb, the former Justice Department official who filed the brief on behalf of former Solicitor General Seth P. Waxman and nine others, explained in a post on the Lawfare blog that his aim was to show that “the government’s arguments in this extraordinary case represent a major departure from both historical and modern applications of the presumption of regularity and should be rejected.” He said he hoped that “putting the cited presumption in its proper context will help prevent this unusual saga from causing lasting damage to the law.” The case may have gone away, but the question hasn’t. Is President Trump entitled to a presumption of regularity? Or has he, through his own words and actions, forfeited any right to the benefit of the doubt? If the Supreme Court can’t or won’t answer that question, history will. Just because a case is moot doesn’t mean we have nothing to learn from it.