Roy Moore’s decisive victory over Luther Strange in the Republican Senate primary runoff on Tuesday in Alabama confirms — as I have reported before — that many Republican voters have a strong sense of white identity, that they harbor high levels of racial resentment and that they sometimes exhibit authoritarian leanings. At the same time, that’s not a complete picture. A 2013 study of red and blue America, conducted well before the seismic events of the last two years, sheds additional light on the Republican electorate and provides a more complicated understanding of contemporary conservatism. In “Divided We Stand: Three Psychological Regions of the United States and Their Political, Economic, Social, and Health Correlates,” Peter J. Rentfrow, a reader in the psychology department at the University of Cambridge, along with five co-authors, explores the results of standardized personality tests given to 1.6 million people in the United States from 1999 to 2010. The Rentfrow paper breaks the country into three “psychological regions” and ranks each region on personality dimensions known as the big five traits: extroversion, agreeableness, conscientiousness, neuroticism and openness to experience. The most conservative and most Republican of the three psychological regions — which Rentfrow labels “Cluster 1: Friendly and Conventional” — extends across the northern tier of the United States from Montana to Michigan, down through the Midwest to almost all of the South for a total of 26 states. The accompanying map shows the region in shades of purple. Rentfrow found that the Cluster 1 region is less affluent, has fewer highly educated residents, and is less innovative compared with states in the other regions. States in this region also appeared to have higher levels of social capital and less social tolerance compared with states in other regions. Moreover, friendly and conventional states were more politically conservative and Protestant compared with other regions. Rentfrow and his co-authors write that the region is defined by moderately high levels of extroversion, agreeableness, and conscientiousness, moderately low neuroticism, and very low openness and that this configuration of traits portrays the sort of person who is sociable, considerate, dutiful, and traditional. I asked a number of experts in political psychology what they thought about the Rentfrow paper, and their answers ran the gamut from those who support a more empathetic portrayal of Republican voters to those who are adamant in their view that authoritarianism remains a dominant characteristic of those on the right. I started with Rentfrow himself. My question went as follows: Some research shows that Republicans, and Trump voters in particular, score high on measures of authoritarianism and on critical, if not hostile, views of African-Americans and immigrants. How does this fit with your finding that residents of the most Republican region are friendly, sociable and considerate? Rentfrow replied that individuals high in authoritarianism score low in openness. So in this sense, the patterns of results we find at the regional level are consistent. Many whites in the South, he argued, abide by an “honor culture.” As long as everyone is respectful and abides by the social norms, everyone is happy and agreeable. But when threats are made against one’s reputation or values, acts of violence and physical aggression are considered appropriate forms of retribution. In some ways, the profile we observe touches on the surface of this profile — the friendly and considerate aspect when all is well. But I think we’re now beginning to see more of the aggressive aspects. I think many people, perhaps especially in this region, have begun to feel threatened by the changes taking place in society and are reacting with anger. In this sense, Roy Moore, who brandished a gun on the campaign trail, fits in with Rentfrow’s description of the link between violence and a culture of honor in the South. It’s worth noting that after winning the primary Moore picked up a strong endorsement from President Trump. Karen Stenner, the author of “The Authoritarian Dynamic,” pointed out that the Rentfrow study found that red state voters were simultaneously “friendly” and less “socially tolerant.” Stenner explained this seeming contradiction by noting that it is a lot easier to be generous and considerate and civic-minded and invested in one’s community if one’s community is full of people much like oneself. The kinds of behaviors we get out of authoritarians depend critically on how and where they have drawn the boundaries of “us” and “them.” They can be very attentive to “us,” but also tend to be very particular about whom “us” includes. John Jost, a professor of psychology and politics at N.Y.U., expands upon the implications of the word “conscientiousness” in describing red state voters: Conscientiousness is correlated with measures of racism, sexism, homophobia, prejudice, authoritarianism, social dominance, and system justification. I suspect that this personality factor has more to do with a need for order or desire for rule-following, which can easily take an authoritarian turn, than other aspects of conscientiousness that we might associate with, say, honesty or integrity. In the opposite corner from Jost, Marc Hetherington, a political scientist at Vanderbilt and a co-author of the 2009 book “Authoritarianism and Polarization in American Politics,” said he has abandoned use of the word “authoritarian” because he views it as excessively pejorative. In place of authoritarian, Hetherington said he will now use the phrase “fixed worldview.” “The adherence to established traditions, what scholars derisively call conventionalism, is very much a characteristic of high conscientiousness,” Hetherington wrote: Whether you think this is good or bad probably depends on what you think of community norms. In my view, there is a lot of good to many of them. Fixed worldview people want to protect them. Hetherington added a cautionary note: Here is the problem though. If you are perceived as outside that community, the enforcement of those norms isn’t going to feel very good. Jonathan Haidt, a social psychologist at N.Y.U.’s Stern School of Business, raised a crucial if obvious point: Primary season Trump voters do not represent all Republican voters. We can’t really know, just on the basis of this paper, whether these traits apply to Trump voters. All we can know is that these traits are more common in states and regions that voted for Trump. It is possible that the people who most show the positively valenced personality traits did not have Trump as their first choice in the primary, but then, once the general election came around, most of them voted for the Republican candidate, which is what partisans do in our two party system with very little party switching. Haidt cited an essay that he and Emily Ekins, the director of polling at the Cato Institute, published in February 2016, “Donald Trump supporters think about morality differently than other voters.” In contrast to Republican primary voters who supported candidates other than Trump, they noted, voters who supported him “score high on authority/loyalty/sanctity and low on care.” These voters, according to Ekins and Haidt, “are the true authoritarians — they value obedience while scoring low on compassion.” Matt Motyl, a political psychologist at the University of Illinois at Chicago, argued in an email that in the general election, the typical Trump voter is not a raging, screaming white nationalist; the typical Trump voter is not much different from the typical Romney, McCain, or Bush voter. They are just ordinary Republicans. There is, however, a subset of Trump supporters “who are extraordinarily vocal in their intolerance and white nationalism,” according to Motyl. These activists have become “the template of the stereotype of Trump voters,” he wrote. “As is the case for many stereotypes,” he added, “there is a grain of truth, but the grain of truth is just that — a grain.” In fact, authoritarian voters with a sense of besieged white identity are more than a “grain” in the Republican electorate. There were enough of them to provide the hard-core base of support to Trump at the start of the Republican primaries, a  base that proved large enough to give Trump pluralities in the early contests. And the clout of the authoritarian, white identity wing of the Republican Party is such that Trump is governing to please this wing first and foremost. From his apocalyptic threats to Kim Jong-un to his call for the firing of protesting N.F.L. players, from his pardon of Joe Arpaio to his defense of pro-Nazi protesters in Charlottesville, Trump has remained the leader of hard-right, white America. This strategy won him the presidency in 2016 when millions of non-authoritarian white Republicans — sympathetic, kind, affectionate, conscientiousness, persevering, thorough and reliable — made a pact with the devil and chose party loyalty over conscience. Who’s to say it won’t work again?