Back in Twitter’s early days, there was a lot of parodying what would come next. My favorite was Flutter, 26 characters — one for each letter of the alphabet — marking the brave, new world of nanoblogging. That was a hefty opener back there. But guess what? It was only 205 characters. Yes, with spaces. There’s a whole 75 more available to add into that seductive white box before tweeting it, at least according to Twitter’s new, wild experiment with a 280-character limit, available in select accounts near you. No, I haven’t been granted access. But thanks a lot for reminding me. Not to turn this into a wistful flashback, but I once tweeted, “I once dated an apostrophe. Too possessive.” I would wager that getting into the sordid details of our relationship would simply bore the reader. Another time I said, “A bad analogy is like a cucumber.” Brevity is the soul of twit. Don’t maximize that maxim. Compared to other social media platforms, Twitter’s flirtation with 280 characters is hardly indulgent. The character limit for a Facebook status is 63,206. That number was difficult to type, let alone fathom. It’s no wonder that Facebook posts end up being fully unhinged rants, diatribes, soapboxes, pleas, meltdowns and valedictorian speeches. We all have those people in our newsfeed who can’t express a thought without multiple paragraphs and a subtext, even if that subtext is just “I don’t care that much about keeping this administrative temp job.” Even though Instagram chiefly trades in photos and videos, it allows for 2,200 characters on posts. Somewhere, the New Yorker cartoon caption contest just shuddered. Even the oft-mocked LinkedIn allows for a bounteous 600 characters to provide alluring professional updates that beckon like sirens to potential networking contacts. When you post a rant on Twitter, it’s pre-masticated into pull quotes, and fed to you, the reader, baby bird-style. It’s almost as if the person’s argument is buffering, until you get to the next installment. The medium forces one to stick to the point. According to Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey (@jack), the original 140-character-limit was arbitrary — a slight shortening of the 160-character SMS limit. But the reason so many of us loved the app was that it was, from its inception, a celebration of something people on the internet generally do very poorly: self-editing. Sure, it was met with derision at first by English professors and “influencers.” We were told it marked the demise of the written word, that in a generation we’d all devolve into illiterate cave men. What are you even supposed to share in 140 characters? What you had for lunch? For some reason, this example frequently came up when people justified why they refused to join Twitter at first. “Oh, Twitter’s not for me. I don’t get it. What do I write? That I’m eating a sandwich?” Well, if that’s the first thing that comes to mind when you decide what to share with the world, then yeah, sure, maybe hold off. But the people best at it used it to revive the bon mot, the aperçu, the printed mike drop. The brilliant Megan Amram (@meganamram), for example, manages to consistently pack the fullest punch in the fewest characters: “Love is finding an emergency contact you can have sex with.” Even full sketches can come from tweets, courtesy of @TheToddWilliams: Twitter, due to its conciseness, became a playground for all types of personalities to talk to and with each other: It’s where M.I.A. can call out Anderson Cooper (Google it), and where LeBron James can shut down the president. Even corporations and products are given a voice to make their opinions heard. DiGiorno Pizza, for example, has a great sense of humor; weirdly enough, it is the delivery. Have a nibble on this sweet ode: At a fundamental level, humans love short bursts of repetition, at least going by the popularity of the GIF, and similarly, the hallmark of a solid tweet is something that can be read over and over, yet maintain the inherent gravity, beauty, or humor of its initial transmission. At the risk of comparing yet another thing to jazz, Twitter has always been the jazz of the internet. It’s just as much about what you can’t fit as what you can. In a world where people can’t stop railing about free speech while simultaneously, indirectly undermining their own arguments, there is a certain value in enforcing limits. If anything, Twitter has erred on the side of giving abuse and vitriol an overly generous sounding board. Imagine if all those trolls had 280 characters. One-hundred-and-forty characters is all a person needs. Well, that and the mute button.