Donald Trump is willing to suffer, just for you. Unrolling his tax plan, Trump wanted to make it very clear that it was going to cost him a ton of money. “I’m doing the right thing, and it’s not good for me. Believe me,” said the Robin Hood of Mar-a-Lago. He’s always telling the public that he’s given up a lot for them. During the campaign, when Trump had a fight with the gold star parents of a fallen soldier, he claimed that he had made “a lot of sacrifices” for the country by being a successful real estate developer. And then there was the time he told CNN’s Wolf Blitzer that he’d “given up a tremendous amount to run for president. I gave up two more seasons of ‘Celebrity Apprentice.’” I know you have been dealing with this man long enough to realize the last statement did not involve a drop of irony. This week, Trump was intent on convincing the nation that he was fighting to raise taxes on himself. Looking at the administration’s package, cynics wondered how a real estate baron could suffer under a plan that calls for a reduction of the top income tax rate, the elimination of the estate tax and an end to the alternative minimum tax, which is supposed to impose some modest sacrifice on high-income people who would otherwise avoid paying anything. Only his tax returns know for sure. To hear the administration talk, the whole Trump tax initiative is one big assault on the wealthy, on behalf of the little guys. Who are their favorite, teeny-tiny people. Gary Cohn, the White House economic adviser, called them “our hard-working citizens that get up every morning and work as hard as any people in the world, to try and keep more of their hard-earned income.” Cohn is a former investment banker who got a $285 million severance package from Goldman Sachs when he joined the government. Deeply cynical minds might have felt that his description of average Americans sounded a little … remote. As it did when he suggested that those hard workers could use their new typical $1,000 tax cut to “buy a new car.” At a press conference, Cohn also seemed to believe that Typical American Family earned $100,000 a year. To which the actual TAF says, “We wish.” Anyhow, the message was that the whole tax effort was for the middle class, and the middle class alone. Although when asked whether every one of those humble folks would be protected from tax hikes, Cohn basically said he couldn’t “guarantee that.” It was one truly awful presentation. We’d be talking about Cohn as Trump’s worst appointment if there wasn’t so much competition. Like the acting head of homeland security, who called the government response to the devastation in Puerto Rico “really a good news story.” And of course there was the late and unlamented secretary of health and human services, Tom Price. It’s going to be hard for anyone to top Price’s week, in which he watched over the total demise of the Obamacare repeal effort, admitted that he spent more than $400,000 of the taxpayers’ money on private plane travel, and then offered to make restitution by reimbursing the government for 12 percent of the bill. Until now, Cohn’s highest-profile moment probably occurred after Trump’s appalling response to the tragedy in Charlottesville. At the time, Cohn wanted the world to know he was agonizing over whether to quit the government in principled protest. But he decided to stay on, for the tax package. “Why am I here? I am here for just this reason,” he told reporters Thursday. Being able to rewrite the tax code was, he said, “a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and I would never miss this.” Asked if he would finally stalk off in moral dudgeon once said tax plan was done, Cohn noted that there were “many more once-in-a-lifetime opportunities at the White House.” About the plan itself. Cohn worked it out with Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, a former hedge fund manager. Amazingly, it does not include Trump’s campaign promise to get rid of a famous tax break for hedge funds known as “carried interest.” (“Hedge fund guys are getting away with murder,” Trump said, so very long ago.) Cohn said the administration would get around to that later. The plan also dramatically drops taxes on businesses known as pass-throughs. It is possible you have never heard of pass-throughs, but there are a lot of them. If this plan makes it into law there will be even more. Everything will be a pass-through. Your family pet will turn itself into a pass-through for tax purposes. “Another megaloophole for the wealthy to dodge paying their fair share,” said Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee. Asked for specifics on how to avoid such abuse, Cohn said details were still to come. But, he assured reporters, the Trump team was opposed to a big new tax benefit for “guys like myself.” The selflessness in this administration never ends.