Stanford, Calif. — In 1938, a 42-year-old autoworker named Florence St. John was angry about being paid less than men doing the same job on a General Motors assembly line in Lansing, Mich. Banding together with two dozen other women, she sued one of the world’s most powerful companies and — to the astonishment of all — won history’s first big damages award in a discrimination case. Soon after her win hit the nation’s newspapers, legislative drives to enact “equal pay” laws spread rapidly to other states and Congress. But then came another surprise: Politically powerful unions quietly killed off bills that would have empowered women like St. John to bring class-action lawsuits challenging wage injustices. Litigation was too great a threat to labor’s control over workplace rules under the New Deal system of collective bargaining, union archives show. St. John’s story might feel like dusty history, but it goes to the heart of three far-reaching cases that are scheduled to be argued on Monday at the Supreme Court. The question in these cases is whether workers are bound by company-imposed employment contracts requiring that they bring workplace complaints via arbitration rather than lawsuits, and that, further, they waive their right to bring these complaints in arbitration as class actions. The cases are among the most watched this term, and for good reason. Arbitration agreements with class-action waivers threaten the rights of the least powerful in America. Estimates are that as many as half of companies impose such agreements. This matters because workplace disputes, particularly those involving low-wage workers, aren’t usually worth enough money for a single wronged worker to pay a lawyer or court or arbitration costs. But aggregated, they become viable. If workers can’t join together, they very likely can’t seek vindication at all. The alternative to collective arbitration is no arbitration. St. John and the unions are relevant because of the legal issue at the core of the cases. The Federal Arbitration Act says arbitration agreements should be enforced. And the Supreme Court has read the act for all it’s worth, repeatedly holding that parties are bound by such agreements no matter what and notwithstanding other interests. This, by the way, is why you most likely can’t sue your cellphone provider or credit card issuer in court and, once pushed into arbitration, you can’t join up with fellow customers. But there’s a wrinkle in the employment context. The National Labor Relations Act, which came after the arbitration act and established the current system of union-based collective bargaining, also protects “other concerted activities” by workers. Now the justices must ask: What exactly was Congress thinking — and also, what were unions, companies and workers like St. John thinking — those many decades ago when the labor relations act was passed into law? Should class actions count as “other concerted activities” and enjoy protection? It may be tempting to use labor’s opposition to class actions in the wake of St. John’s lawsuit so many years ago to construe the N.L.R.A.’s protections narrowly and let the arbitration act trump them. After all, why would unions press Congress to include protections for class-action lawsuits they saw as a threat? But St. John’s story illuminates two important lessons that point in the other direction and should remain front and center in the justices’ minds. First, St. John helps us to see the current cases as a pivotal battle in a much longer fight over how best to make the American workplace safe and fair. There are many ways to protect workers: union- and company-negotiated collective bargaining agreements dictating wages and work conditions; regulatory agencies making and enforcing workplace rules; or courts and lawsuits that allow workers to enforce such rules themselves. The problem is that the first two options have gone out the window in recent decades. Union membership hit an all-time low in 2016. And government agencies, after a sustained conservative attack, are also on the ropes. The cases before the court are so consequential because they could complete the circle by striking litigation as a viable option for many workers long after the alternatives — including the collective bargaining system labor sought to protect after St. John’s lawsuit — have faded from view. This would be tragic because of a second lesson history teaches us: Litigation is often the only weapon individuals like St. John have against institutions with powerful incentives to block or blunt their claims of right. Over time these institutions have included discriminatory unions and predatory corporations, but they have also included the government itself, as when citizens sue an administrative agency that violates the Constitution or Congress’s instructions to do or not do something. Litigation can, of course, be inefficient. But it has long given the disempowered an entree into a political and regulatory system that is too often closed to them. It is the great leveler for workers like St. John. Florence St. John’s story reminds us that, some 70 years ago, employers, unions and women’s groups fought a similar battle to the one playing out before the Supreme Court about how best to protect workers. Then, at least, the class action lost. The court shouldn’t let that happen again without first considering the high stakes for St. John’s workplace heirs.