This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. If you are heartbroken about the latest mass shooting and tired of how frequent such shootings have become, don’t let anyone intimidate you from talking about gun safety now. It’s the right time to do so, and it will remain the right time until we’ve made progress in dealing with this problem. It’s entirely possible to do so. Here are five pieces I recommend in the wake of the Las Vegas horror. I’m still trying to fathom the toll — at least 59 dead and 527 wounded. 1. “There is a right way to ‘politicize’ mass shootings, and a wrong way to politicize them,” writes Greg Sargent of The Plum Line. The wrong way is to focus on the shooter’s ideology (and Sargent wrote his piece before almost anything was known about this shooter). The right way is to start “intense arguments over how to prevent” future shootings, Sargent writes. He also urges people to be clear about whether they’re trying to prevent overall gun deaths or mass shootings, which represent just a tiny fraction of gun deaths. 2. My colleague Nick Kristof: “in every other sphere, we at least use safety regulations to try — however imperfectly — to reduce death and injury.” Kristof makes eight specific suggestions that he thinks have the potential to reduce gun deaths by nearly one-third. “Since 1970, more Americans have died from guns (including suicides, murders and accidents) than the sum total of all the Americans who died in all the wars in American history, back to the American Revolution,” he writes. The Upshot also has a chart ranking potential regulations by their predicted effectiveness. 3. “More guns mean more gun deaths. Period,” writes Vox’s German Lopez. Just look at the charts he cites comparing the number of guns and gun deaths in the United States and elsewhere — or the chart comparing various states within this country. If you prefer this information in video form, here you go. 4. New York Magazine’s Lisa Miller wrote last year about an “experiment in radical empathy,” in which Americans on different sides of the gun debate sat down to talk with each other. In some ways, the experiment worked; in others, it did not. But Miller’s piece raises some ideas about how to make progress. 5. One person who has changed his mind: Caleb Keeter, a country guitarist who performed at the Las Vegas venue hours before the shooting. “I’ve been a proponent of the 2nd amendment my entire life. Until the events of last night,” he wrote on Twitter. “Enough is enough.” In The Times: Nevada is “an open-carry state with a Wild West past of loose gun laws and regulations,” writes Brittany Bronson, who works on the Las Vegas Strip. Steve Israel, a former Democratic congressman from New York, argues that partisanship and public apathy mean that nothing about America’s gun policies will change. And the Editorial Board offers a calendar cataloging every mass shooting since the Orlando nightclub massacre.