The N.C.A.A. is embroiled in scandal yet again. Last week, federal prosecutors charged several coaches, an agent and a sports apparel executive with, essentially, illegally profiting off branding opportunities for basketball players. That shouldn’t really surprise anyone. This scandal isn’t truly about corrupt coaches and shoe salesmen. It’s about the lengths to which the N.C.A.A. goes to control every dollar and branding opportunity associated with college athletics. An illegal economy has operated behind high-level college athletics for a long time. Its root cause is that universities with powerhouse sports teams like U.C.L.A., Ohio State and Texas receive nearly $20 million a year from brands like Adidas or Nike, while the athletes wearing the Adidas or Nike apparel are expected to compete purely for the love of the game. College basketball players are worth a lot of money, but they aren’t legally allowed to make it. So the schools, coaches, agents and shoe companies make the money instead — all in the name of “amateurism.” It’s clearly time to revise the rules of the N.C.A.A. in favor of the students. But as simply paying the players seems to be a non-starter, let’s begin by reforming the association’s bylaw that prevents college athletes from promoting any personal creative endeavor if they even mention that they participate in a sport. Here’s an example from Macalester College, where I am president. Our school is fortunate to have as a student a young man (whose name I can’t mention) who has published a book (whose title I can’t cite). The book has nothing whatsoever to do with athletics, but among his many activities at the college, he participates in an intercollegiate sport (which, of course, shall remain unspecified). Most people not associated with the N.C.A.A. would consider this an impressive diversification of skills and interests. But N.C.A.A. bylaw 12.5.1.3, otherwise denoted as “Modeling and Other Nonathletically Related Promotional Activities,” specifies that, in promoting the book, no reference can be made to the individual’s “involvement in intercollegiate athletics.” What does this mean in practice? It means that the author’s book biography cannot state that he participates in a college-level sport. It means that, in publicizing the book to students or alumni, the college cannot mention that the author is a student athlete. It even means that the student cannot mention the book on his Facebook page because his Facebook profile shows photos of him engaging in the unspecified sport. Presumably this rule was written to prevent a college athlete, whether from a Division I sports juggernaut or a Division III college like Macalester, from making piles of money after revealing he is an intercollegiate athlete. The N.C.A.A. wants to prevent some Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback or some one-and-done power forward at the University of Kentucky from writing a book or modeling a sweater in order to profit from his collegiate athletic celebrity. Of course, the reasonable response to this concern is: What’s wrong with a person profiting from his own accomplishments and celebrity? Isn’t that more or less the way it’s supposed to work? But the N.C.A.A., not content with the billions in TV and merchandising revenue it already takes in, is determined to leave no spare change under the couch cushions. Lest you think I exaggerate, look up the case of the two athletes at the University of Iowa who started a T-shirt screening business and were threatened with ineligibility by the N.C.A.A. because their website mentioned that they met because they were both — brace yourself — swimmers. Or the more recent case of a cross-country runner at Texas A&M who was threatened with ineligibility for posting a YouTube video about a water bottle company he started. The most repugnant aspect of this N.C.A.A. rule is that it runs directly counter to the optimal American college education. We want students to have multiple interests, multiple facets to their personal and academic lives, and to explore openly how those various identities play out. We want a student athlete to think — and talk — about what it means to be an athlete and an author, or an athlete and an entrepreneur, or an athlete and an artist. But a student who designs and sells greeting cards and mentions on her Facebook page that she is a softball player risks losing her athletic eligibility. That is shameful. Bylaw 12.5.1.3 has got to go. Given all of the stereotypes about student athletes as prizing sports over academics, one would think that the N.C.A.A. would be enthusiastic about opportunities to shatter those. But given the choice between doing so and inadvertently allowing an athlete to profit from even the most tangential connection to his or her own athletic efforts, the N.C.A.A. has decided to force students to disguise who they are. For those few students who star in Division I, it is an invitation to enter into a sad but unsurprising underground economy. For Division III athletes, the hypocrisy is a dispiriting act of silencing. For anyone who cares about fairness, it is a disgrace.