This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Ta-Nehisi Coates has criticized my column on kneeling athletes, and several readers also made a version of his point, in emails. I wanted to offer a few thoughts in response. First, I appreciate Coates’s prefacing his critique with kind words about most of my work, and the feeling is mutual. If you’ve heard his name but haven’t yet read any of his articles or his books, you should remedy that. Here is part of what he said, on an episode of Pod Save America, edited slightly for brevity (and here’s an Atlantic article in which he expanded the argument): David Leonhardt’s column “points out Martin Luther King, John Lewis, March on Washington, boycotts, etc., and how the civil rights movement presumably successfully appealed to America by pointing out the things that bring us together. And this is contrasted with N.F.L. players who are kneeling today in the movement inaugurated by [Colin] Kaepernick. “And David says, ‘While I’m in sympathy with these players, they need to look at the past and learn that it’s possible to appeal to the masses of Americans, that you can get Americans on your side if you can find something that bridges the gap, that brings us all together. And kneeling doesn’t do that.’ “And he shows some polling data to show that. I read that, and I almost threw my computer across the room. Because in fact there is polling data about what Americans thought of Martin Luther King, and the Freedom Riders, and the March on Washington. It wasn’t a high opinion at all.” There is no question that protests often start as unpopular and that the civil rights movement is an example. The civil rights leaders now seen as heroes were often cast as traitors during their movement, as I said in the column. That they were unpopular for a long time didn’t prevent them from succeeding. But what lesson should we draw from that? Surely, we should not conclude that all forms of protest will ultimately succeed. That’s akin to saying that the content of any protest is irrelevant. All we can know is that initial unpopularity does not guarantee failure. There are plenty of protest movements that started unpopular and remained so, without anywhere near the impact that the civil rights movement had. The United States has famously never had a large far-left movement — the sort of socialist and communist parties that are mainstream in Europe and elsewhere. These movements tend to argue that America is irredeemable, and they have repeatedly failed to gain traction here. Civil rights leaders made a conscious decision to co-opt patriotic symbols and language, believing that doing so increased their odds of winning over both politicians and the public. The part about politicians may be more important: The movement’s patriotism made it far easier for Lyndon Johnson and members of Congress eventually to ally with it. There are other examples of protests playing on American self-regard, like the more recent marriage-equality movement, which successfully argued that the mistreatment of same-sex couples undermined the country’s values. It changed public opinion and changed laws. Appeals to American ideals were also central to Barack Obama’s political strategy. “What greater form of patriotism is there than the belief that America is not yet finished,” he asked, on the 50th anniversary of the Selma to Montgomery march, “that we are strong enough to be self-critical, that each successive generation can look upon our imperfections and decide that it is in our power to remake this nation to more closely align with our highest ideals?” The athletes are part of this tradition, too, but their best-known tactic — kneeling during the national anthem — is rather different. It does not seem to celebrate American values and demand that the country live up to them. It is less focused, without an obvious connection to police violence. It is more despairing. Despair also has a long relationship with protest movements, but it is a much less successful history. Despair can quickly lead to nihilist notions that politics is hopeless. Despair can cause people to believe that elections hardly matter because candidates like Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton are all “evil.” As it happens, that particular view was promoted last year by Colin Kaepernick, the quarterback who, as Coates notes, started the kneeling protest. When America itself is corrupt, you may as well vote for Jill Stein or Ralph Nader. I understand why many Americans feel despair today and why many on the political left aren’t in a patriotic mood. Racial inequities remain shameful. Gun violence continues unabated. The planet warms. And Trump creates one new crisis after another. I also understand that protest movements need both radicals and pragmatists to succeed. The civil rights movement had both, and today’s athletes deserve credit for the stir they’ve created. But if progressives choose to reject pragmatism, optimism and, yes, patriotism, I suspect they will spend many years protesting the country’s direction instead of setting it.