While the citizens of Puerto Rico persevere through the devastating aftermath of Hurricane Maria, the island’s creditors are engaged in a very different recovery effort. At the very moment when the island needs relief, those creditors are trying to increase the value of their debt holdings. Few things could be more damaging to Puerto Rico’s ability to rebuild. President Trump, who visited Puerto Rico on Tuesday, has said in tweets that the island’s debts “sadly must be dealt with.” That is true — but not by enhancing creditors’ returns. Instead, the island’s crushing debt should be reduced to the maximum extent through the legal framework established by Congress last year. Mr. Trump himself now seems to agree with that idea, without offering details. “They owe a lot of money to your friends on Wall Street and we’re going to have to wipe that out,” he said in an interview on Fox News Tuesday. “You’re going to say goodbye to that, I don’t know if it’s Goldman Sachs, but whoever it is you can wave goodbye to that.” Before Hurricane Maria, Puerto Rico was already enduring a debt crisis. The commonwealth had accumulated more than $70 billion in debt, paying interest rates as high as 8.5 percent. The public pension funds were depleted, and Medicaid money allotted from the Affordable Care Act had nearly run out. Gross national product had dropped by 15 percent since 2006, and the population had shrunk by more than 10 percent. Unlike municipalities such as Detroit, Puerto Rico did not have the right to declare bankruptcy and seek relief under Chapter 9 of bankruptcy law. So in June 2016, Congress passed Promesa (“promise”), a tough, bipartisan compromise that provided a comprehensive restructuring authority and independent oversight to temporarily oversee the island’s tangled finances. While imperfect, Promesa offered a powerful tool to reduce the island’s debt. Despite this need for financial restructuring, obvious to members of both parties, creditors unleashed a wave of lobbyists to try to defeat it. Speaker Paul Ryan called them “vultures” for running ads against Republican members of the House in their home districts that falsely labeled bankruptcy a bailout. The bipartisan oversight board members, unpaid for their service and forced to restructure Puerto Rico’s finances without additional federal funds, became immediate targets of criticism. Before the hurricane, the commonwealth’s governor and the oversight board were making progress to place Puerto Rico on a long-term path toward solvency. A stay on litigation allowed Puerto Rico to suspend payments on most of its debt. To date, it has not had to pay $4.5 billion, and that total should rise. Nearly all of Puerto Rico’s indebted entities, including the power utility and the highway and transportation authority, have effectively filed for bankruptcy. A fiscal plan proposed by the governor and unanimously approved by the board projected that Puerto Rico would need a debt reduction of 75 to 80 cents on the dollar over the next 10 years, even with draconian austerity measures, in order to achieve fiscal balance. But now, well-funded creditor lobbyists are trying to disrupt the Promesa process in hopes that their debt will not be written down, blaming the oversight board and continuing bankruptcy litigation for Puerto Rico’s problems. Already, one hears the cynical assertion that the blackouts and loss of electricity could have been averted if only a creditor-friendly restructuring of the power utility had been allowed to proceed. That is an absurd claim, and it ignores a basic question: What would the restructuring they proposed have cost the people of Puerto Rico? Electricity rates in Puerto Rico are among the highest in the country. It would be unjust to lock the people on the island into a commitment to underwrite these costs to guarantee payments to bondholders in exchange for a meaningless reduction in debt. Just last week, the utility’s creditors shamelessly offered a $1 billion senior loan in exchange for a relatively tiny $300 million reduction of the utility’s $9 billion in debt. Creditor expectations must finally reflect reality. The governor and oversight board urgently need to revise the fiscal plan to eliminate austerity measures as Puerto Rico rebuilds and to cut the debt burden to the maximum extent possible. The bankruptcy proceedings must proceed expeditiously. We can expect continued attacks on Promesa in the courts; the Trump Justice Department must actively defend the law consistent with its customary obligation to defend laws enacted by Congress. Congress should also pass legislation to provide hurricane relief in the tens of billions of dollars to address the devastation on the island and to deliver the resources that are required for delivery of essential supplies. It should consider authorizing short-term emergency funding, as Puerto Rico’s sales taxes (the highest in the country, at 11.5 percent) and other revenue sources will collapse in the near term. Longer term, it should provide long-sought Medicaid parity with the states and allow its residents to claim an earned-income tax credit, which they have been denied. And the private sector, alongside humanitarian aid organizations already active on the island, faces a moral imperative to lend expertise, goods and services. The federal government has a profound responsibility to protect the American citizens of Puerto Rico, who have fought in our wars but have no voting representation in Congress. President Trump has now seen firsthand the destructive impact of Hurricane Maria. He cannot simply “wipe out” the island’s debt. But he can join Congress in acting decisively to restore hope in Puerto Rico’s moment of peril.