KINGSTON, N.Y. — The Washington chef José Andrés has spent the past week in Puerto Rico cooking meals in hot-tub-size paella pans for Americans affected by Hurricane Maria. With his team, working out of mobile kitchens, restaurants and food trucks, he’s prepared more than 50,000 meals and counting. But you don’t have to be a famous restaurateur to make a difference through food. In the wake of Donald Trump’s election, many Americans have taken to the streets. Some have taken a knee. Others have donated, written, called and boycotted. Me? I’m cooking. I have been an avid home cook for my entire life. I started making Thanksgiving dinner for my family when I was still in middle school. Now, along with voting and volunteering, one of the ways I resist is by cooking for activists here in Kingston, N.Y. I bring lasagnas to phone-banking meetings, roll rice-and-bean burritos for canvassers to eat on the go and drop off corn muffins at protests. I’ve also challenged myself to look closely at what happens around my own table. A few months back, Nicole Taylor, a fellow cookbook author, asked me the last time I invited someone who doesn’t look like me over for a meal. It’s a critical question we should all be asking ourselves, because the most valuable tool in our kitchens isn’t found in any drawer or cupboard: It’s the table. Remember that Derek Black, whose father was a grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, began to rethink his white nationalist views after being invited to Shabbat dinner by a college classmate. Over the summer, dismayed by the lack of racial diversity in food media, I invited four friends in the industry to my home for a weekend of conversation and organizing. My wife and I were the only white people there. Except to sleep, none of us ever left the kitchen table. That weekend’s endless meal has sustained me in so many ways. Listening to their experiences has helped inform every decision I make as a white cookbook author who has access to platforms such as the one you’re reading. There is a great legacy to food as a tool of resistance in this country. After Rosa Parks was arrested in 1955, Georgia Gilmore organized the Club From Nowhere, a group of women who cooked and baked and sold their food to raise money during the Montgomery, Ala., bus boycotts. The Club From Nowhere used food as a way to not only feed its community, but also to fund the Montgomery Improvement Association, which supplied things like tires and gas for the drivers who helped those involved in the bus boycott to get to work. Ms. Gilmore also ran an unofficial restaurant out of her home. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was one of her most frequent clients and even lent her money to equip her kitchen. In the 1960s, Fannie Lou Hamer created a communal farm and livestock-share program in the Mississippi Delta in an effort to establish land ownership and self-sufficiency for African-Americans. Indeed, most planning and organizing during the civil rights movement happened around kitchen tables. Rosalind Bentley, a journalist at The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, refers to the women who housed and fed civil rights activists as “Hostesses of the Movement.” Her Aunt Lucy, who provided food and sanctuary for Dr. King and other organizers, was one of them. When I asked Ms. Bentley what she learned from her aunt’s contribution, she said: “You have to find your voice and raise it however you can. Maybe it’s singing. Maybe it’s providing meals. Maybe it’s some other form of protest. Do something where you are.” These days, there are chefs all over the country who are heirs to Georgia Gilmore and Fannie Lou Hammer and Aunt Lucy’s legacies. At Navi Kitchen in Emeryville, Calif., the chef and owner Preeti Mistry gives a dollar from every serving of her Tikka Masala Macaroni and Cheese to Destiny Arts Center, an organization that teaches self-defense and dance to young people on a sliding-fee scale. In Atlanta, Erika Council serves buttery biscuits, the same ones she watched her grandmother Mildred Cotton Council bake for neighborhood kids who didn’t have breakfast, at her Sunday Suppers, a roving dinner series that celebrates Southern food traditions. Ms. Council uses profits from her dinners to fund programs that teach computer science to underserved children. Some chefs and activists work on an even bigger scale. Jordyn Lexton is the executive director of Drive Change, which hires formerly incarcerated youths to work on food trucks. The chef and writer Tunde Wey hosts a Blackness in America dinner series and uses the gathering as a way of having challenging conversations about race. At Hot Bread Kitchen, Jessamyn Waldman Rodriguez is diversifying the culinary work force by giving women facing economic insecurity paid and intensive on-the-job training in her commercial bakery so that they start careers in food. At Emma’s Torch, Kerry Brodie’s Brooklyn-based organization, refugees receive paid culinary training, English lessons and assistance in finding restaurant jobs. When it comes to feeding the resistance, there is no such thing as too many cooks in the kitchen.