This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Inside North Korea. Watch Nick Kristof’s tense interview with a North Korean and read Nick’s Sunday column based on his recent visit to the country. Athletes and police. Social media creates a lot of incentives for doubling down on an argument. People who agree will tell you that you’ve made your case beautifully. People who disagree shower you with the sort of insults that don’t inspire reflection. The brevity of Twitter and Facebook crowd out nuance. All of which causes honest disagreements to turn nasty. If you’ve been reading this newsletter, you’ll know that I’ve been in a debate with Ta-Nehisi Coates about athletes kneeling during the national anthem. He and I both agree with the players’ cause — protesting police mistreatment of African-Americans — but he thinks the athletes’ form of protest is more effective than I do. Yesterday, Coates did something that probably shouldn’t be remarkable but is: After I wrote a tweet that he found especially questionable, he passed up a chance to make me look bad. Instead, he wrote me a private note, through Twitter, and explained his objection. In particular, he suggested I spend more time studying the athletes’ demands. Doing so didn’t change my mind about our original debate. But it did make me grateful. It also gave me some ideas about where the issue of athlete protests can go from here. In addition to the visible on-field protests during the national anthem — the source of my disagreement with Coates — several athletes have made detailed arguments about what needs to change. Among them, four N.F.L. players who wrote a long memo to Roger Goodell, the league commissioner, asking for the league’s help in advocating for police oversight and less incarceration. The memo goes into detail on eight different areas, such as juvenile sentencing and bail reform. The details have the potential to be the most promising and productive part of this whole debate. The athletes would be the first ones to say that they’re not protesting for the sake of it. The memo, for example, asks league executives to help them find ways to “counter the vast amount of press attention” on “the ‘national anthem protests.’” The athletes’ goal is to effect change — to stop African-Americans from dying at the hands of police or needlessly sitting in jail. Whether you think the anthem protests are an effective cri de coeur or a problematic distraction, you can support many of the athletes’ detailed proposals. Given my own views, I hope the athletes can find some attention-grabbing forms of protest that make everyone understand exactly what they want. Their ideas are serious and thoughtful. They would save innocent lives. For more on how to save those lives, I recommend a series of columns in The New York Daily News by Shaun King. The series has 25 parts, which I realize sounds daunting, but each column is not long. Trump scandals. I asked readers yesterday to help complete a list of personal-enrichment scandals involving the Trump administration, and you responded with: • Kellyanne Conway, a top Trump adviser, promoted Ivanka’s fashion line on television. • Despite Trump’s spending only eight days in Trump Tower as president so far, the government has spent $130,000 per month since April to lease space in the building for a military office that supports the White House. • And there are likely some scandals we don’t know about because, unlike other modern presidents and candidates, Trump has refused to release his tax returns. Mnuchin update. The Treasury Department’s inspector general concluded yesterday that Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, broke no laws when he spent $800,000 to travel on military planes. But the inspector general also criticized Mnuchin’s insufficient explanation for why he needed to spend so much taxpayer money. “What is of concern is a disconnect between the standard of proof called for,” the inspector general wrote, “and the actual amount of proof provided by Treasury and accepted by the White House in justifying these trip requests.” The full Opinion report from The Times follows, including Rachel Shabi’s prediction that the British left is about to have its moment.