On Sept. 27, in an incident that has since ricocheted around conservative media, the Black Lives Matter chapter at the College of William and Mary shut down a talk by the director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Virginia on “Students and the First Amendment.” It’s unfortunate for the students involved that their protest drew national notice; the internet makes it far too easy for undergraduates experimenting with radicalism to become instantly infamous. Yet the attention is unsurprising, because the event, live-streamed by the student activists themselves, seemed to epitomize campus trends that many outsiders abhor. The confrontation began just as the A.C.L.U.’s Claire Gastañaga started talking about “knowing your rights during protests and demonstrations.” A multiracial group of around a dozen black-clad students marched to the front of the auditorium, arrayed themselves before the stage and began chanting things like “A.C.L.U.! You’d protect Hitler too!” They’d been moved to protest because the A.C.L.U. had defended the rights of white supremacists to rally in Charlottesville, Va. At one point they intoned “Shame! Shame! Shame!” in a cadence that recalled a disturbing scene of public humiliation from “Game of Thrones.” Gastañaga was not able to continue speaking. It can be hard to know what to make of reports of a free speech crisis on college campuses. Some progressives claim that concerns about left-wing student authoritarianism are overblown, and occasionally I’m tempted to believe them. A recent survey that purported to show widespread student hostility to free speech became a minor media sensation, only to be debunked by a polling expert who declared its methodology “junk science.” Last month, the professional troll Milo Yiannopoulos tried to bait the left with plans for a so-called Free Speech Week at the University of California, Berkeley, to be packed with talks by figures anathema to the campus left. It seemed meant to make the school look censorious, but it failed. Berkeley bent over backward to accommodate Yiannopoulos, and the event’s organizers ended up canceling. Still, if the average college campus is not quite the Maoist re-education camp of right-wing fantasy, there are enough embarrassing incidents like the one at William and Mary to suggest that parts of the left disdain the First Amendment. At times, I can understand why young radicals might roll their eyes when they hear “free speech.” They’ve grown up at a time when the people proclaiming the phrase the loudest are reactionaries like Yiannopoulos or Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who lectured about campus free speech at Georgetown’s law school last month. College-age leftists also have more reason to fear far-right ideas than my generation did. I grew up admiring the A.C.L.U. for defending the right of neo-Nazis to march through Skokie, Ill., in 1978, but that might be because I never saw neo-Nazis as a genuine threat. Perhaps I’d have been less sanguine if the president of the United States had described the Skokie marchers as “very fine people.” Particularly since the rise of Trump, many on the American right are intent on shattering taboos around racist or sexist ideas. The alt-right, which often targets college campuses, wants to open up our basic social consensus about human equality to debate, to make it possible to freely ponder whether women and people of color are inferior to white men. Those who care about civil rights are correct to hold the line, to say that there are certain ideas that deserve broad contempt rather than a fair hearing. The problem is that we have no agreement about which ideas are beyond the pale, and the people least willing to draw necessary distinctions are the most strident. Student activists are naturally going to test boundaries and make maximalist demands. Yet while I’m under no illusion that they’re interested in the opinions of Gen X liberals like myself, someone should tell them that if the principle of free speech is curtailed, those with the least power are most likely to feel the chill. Consider where we are right now. Despite the self-parodic actions of some college students, the greatest threats to free speech in the United States are on the right. Our demagogic president demands that (mostly black) athletes be fired for engaging in peaceful protest. On Thursday, he sent a tweet suggesting that the Senate Intelligence Committee investigate the “Fake News Networks.” The Justice Department plans to retry a left-wing protester, Desiree Fairooz, who was arrested for laughing at Sessions during his confirmation hearing and whose conviction for disorderly and disruptive conduct was tossed out by a judge in July. Since Donald Trump’s inauguration, legislators in nearly 20 states have proposed laws to curb protests, including bills that would immunize drivers who hit demonstrators blocking roadways. Leftists may have a measure of power on college campuses, but the right can reach them there, too. Fox News regularly singles out left-wing professors for denunciation. In June, an adjunct professor in New Jersey was fired after an appearance on “Tucker Carlson Tonight” in which she defended a blacks-only Memorial Day celebration and mocked white people who objected. Though we often hear about pro-Israel students who feel intimidated by the campus left, pro-Palestine students regularly face censorship as well. When I asked Lee Rowland, a senior staff attorney with the A.C.L.U.’s Speech, Privacy, and Technology Project, about where she saw the biggest threat to campus free speech, she didn’t hesitate: “I think the most pernicious pattern of censorship on college campuses might relate to Palestinian activists.” I understand that for a lot of young leftists, it doesn’t make sense to equate what they see as hate speech with the speech of the oppressed. It’s harder for me to understand why they think that if First Amendment protections are weakened, the left — and not, say, the Trump administration — will be allowed to define what is hateful and what is not. After all, it is extremely common to hear people on the right describe Black Lives Matter as a hate group. A Louisiana police officer injured in a protest against police brutality recently tried to sue the movement and one of its most prominent members for incitement. It’s certainly true that it’s easier to enjoy free speech when you’re privileged. It doesn’t follow from that, however, that eroding free speech protections helps the vulnerable. When disputes about free speech are adjudicated not according to broad principles but according to who has power, the left will mostly lose. If the students at William and Mary aren’t frightened off activism by their experience with national notoriety, they’ll probably learn that soon enough. Luckily, if they ever do come face to face with forces determined to shut them up, the A.C.L.U. will be there.