With any luck, the television documentary “The Vietnam War” by Ken Burns and Lynn Novick may open the way for a new period of public and academic interest in the conflict. That may sound strange: How many movies, books, poems and documentaries have been made about the war, after all? A lot, of course. But with few exceptions, the “conversation” around the war has been stuck in neutral, focused on a few important but far from all-encompassing questions. But the Burns-Novick documentary could change that. History, especially the history of controversial conflicts, tends to get stuck in ruts. Take, for example, the historical arguments around Britain’s role in World War I. There are many similarities between Britain’s Great War and America’s Vietnam. Britain’s generals were perhaps dimwitted, its policies and politicians arguably misguided and its veterans mostly overlooked. Despite a “victory” for the Allies, much of the British role in the war seemed futile. It didn’t feel like victory. And the war created tectonic cultural and political changes in Britain and its colonies. Almost as soon as the war ended, historians swarmed around it, engaging in a debate with great immediate consequences for a country that still considered itself the heart of a global empire. The resulting torrent of books and films focused on the metanarrative — the big questions that mattered most. Was the war good or bad? Had there been a meaningful victory? Was the sacrifice of a generation worthy of the war’s outcome? Advertisement But as historians zeroed in on a few answers, much of the nuance and importance of the war’s deeper history was lost. In the process, questions tended to coalesce around Gen. Sir Douglas Haig, the commander of British forces for the majority of the conflict. For nearly 70 years, studies of Haig’s career served as a historical battleground, and his life became the vessel of Britain’s wartime sins. The “Great Haig Debate” crushed all other avenues of historical investigation. Finally, in 1993, the historical team of Robin Prior and Trevor Wilson lashed out at the stagnation that had overtaken their field, fuming that the metanarrative served to “preserve historical writing about the Great War in its ridiculously protracted adolescence.” Aided by an emerging school of young historians, their work acted like an alarm clock, jostling the field of World War I history out of its slumber. New questions were asked: How much were civilian leaders to blame for Britain’s mistakes in the war? What was the role of colonial soldiers in the war? How did the British home front — and in particular women — respond to the war? Like the Great War for Britain, answers to what the Vietnam War was, why it was fought and the causality of its unsatisfactory conclusion will define America’s nature and very soul in the 20th century and beyond. Was the United States a stumbling, but well intentioned, colossus beset by overmatched presidents, bumbling military leaders, divisive protesters, an invasive press and bad allies? Or was America perhaps more sinister, a grasping imperial power defeated as much by its own hubris as by a stalwart Vietnamese foe? At stake in these historical debates over a war fought 50 years ago is America’s definition of itself. Were and are we a force for good, or might we be tarnished and tawdry? The underlying questions on this debate have remained quite few and always the same — questions of causality and blame. Like the historians of Britain’s Great War, those of Vietnam have tended to focus on a few figures and their decision-making, to the exclusion of everyone and everything else. How much ink has been spilled on that pair of brooding, scheming presidents, Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon? How many bookshelves can be filled with tomes on the audacious Ho Chi Minh, the slippery and shadowy Henry Kissinger, the overmatched Robert McNamara? Topping them all, though, has to be Gen. William Westmoreland. Tall. Ramrod straight. Grim visage. He just had that look, and he, like Haig before him, is the subject of endless debate. Was he a martinet who never really understood his war and cost America a chance at victory, or was he perhaps something more complex? In either case, the “Great Westmoreland Debate” rages on, with the general often serving as the vessel of our Vietnam sins. As the “Great Haig Debate” did once before, the Vietnam metanarrative has often served to stymie a field that needs to broaden its horizons. Take just the battlefield history: From the A Shau Valley to Leatherneck Square, from the Arizona Territory to Dak To, from Snoopy’s Nose to the Parrot’s Beak — there are major battles spanning South Vietnam still awaiting their first real historical attention. Advertisement Other topics are even less well-covered: pacification, the American advisory effort, the development of counterinsurgency techniques, the complex role of the South Vietnamese military, the military roles of South Korean and Thai troops and the related, concurrent wars in Cambodia and Laos. What about the plethora of military commanders not named Westmoreland? And what of wider questions of race, class and gender? This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. So much of the history of the Vietnam War is an unplowed field, while so many of the war’s historians remained fixated on the same old furrows. New questions, voices, sources, perspectives, battles, commanders, ideas — the field needs all of these, and not just to fill academic conferences. If we’re ever going to understand America in the 20th century, we need a much better understanding of what it did in Vietnam. Mr. Burns and Ms. Novick’s “The Vietnam War” is arguably a masterpiece of its genre. It included new film footage, followed a rich and compelling narrative and added fresh voices to weave a synthetic history of the war. Audiences watched spellbound as a history that most didn’t know or have access to unfolded before their eyes. “The Vietnam War” made the war matter again. Opening eyes to history is priceless, and “The Vietnam War” accomplished that like no other documentary in this field. What we saw, though, was a thorough and compelling re-asking of the same basic questions over half a century. That’s partly the limitation of the medium — a general-interest documentary is not going to venture too far into new fields of inquiry. But even if the filmmakers had wanted to, the fact is that historians haven’t ventured there much either. The success that was “The Vietnam War” can take us in one or two historical directions. It could stand as the culminating moment of the metanarrative in which the Vietnam War ceases to be a current event and lapses into history. Similar to what Prior and Wilson did for Britain’s World War I, “The Vietnam War” could well serve as a launching point for new questions and new history. This was certainly the case for Mr. Burns’s breakthrough 1990 documentary, “The Civil War.” For five consecutive nights, an estimated 40 million Americans sat glued to their televisions, mesmerized by horror and the sacrifice made by millions. They ordered copies of the Union officer Sullivan Ballou’s letter after it was read during the first episode and rehashed the previous night’s events at work and in schools the next day. Scholars cringed at the clichés Mr. Burns’s narrative reinforced and spent years correcting many of the documentary’s simplifications. But historians also acknowledged that he ignited a unquenchable curiosity among viewers, giving us the opportunity to clarify his points as well as our own. Discussion on soldiers’ motivations, personal history and memories; questions of home fronts and guerrilla operations; questions about women and slave life and resistance were commonplace. Traditional military history blended with cultural and social history. And the central role of race and slavery in the cause and legacy of the war, if not fully clarified in the film, became a focus of discussion for years to come. As historians, we can only hope that the surge of interest provided by “The Vietnam War” will have a similar impact, re-energizing debate and study. The timing is ripe: A generation of young historians, many of them fluent in Vietnamese, is digging into newly opened archives and developing fresh discussion, from the political history of North Vietnam to the role that the war played in American consumer culture. But a re-energized debate is far from guaranteed. Unlike the Civil War, Vietnam is still within many currents lifetimes, and many of those people are invested in the old verities about Johnson and Westmoreland and Tet and the rest. If the success of “The Vietnam War” results in a continued reasking of the same questions, our understanding of the war and its combatants will remain maddeningly incomplete, and the history of the war will remain mired in its own ridiculously protracted adolescence. Andrew Wiest and Susannah Ural are professors of history at the University of Southern Mississippi. They are the authors, most recently, of “The Boys of ’67: Charlie Company’s War in Vietnam” and “Don’t Hurry Me Down to Hades: The Civil War in the Words of Those Who Lived It.” Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 