Please stop. Gary Cohn and Steven Mnuchin are both now endangering the reputations they built up over many years in business. They’re doing so by telling blatant untruths about President Trump’s tax plan. My column today is a plea to them to stop, for their sake and for everyone else’s.  Trump vs. Corker. Top Republicans have not been very brave on the subject of Trump. They’ve made excuses for him and frequently offered lukewarm criticism of outrageous behavior. But it’s still important not to conflate widespread cowardice with support — the sort of support that almost every previous president has enjoyed from members of his own party. Trump has enjoyed less of that support than any other first-year president. I covered this topic in more detail in a recent column, and the political scientist Matt Glassman regularly tweets about it. This past weekend brought yet another example of Republican defiance, with the war of tweets between Trump and Sen. Bob Corker, the Tennessee Republican. Corker followed up with an extraordinary New York Times interview in which he harshly criticized the president. “As Corker noted, most every GOP senator shares his alarm about Trump,” The Times’s Jonathan Martin later tweeted. There are some major ways in which no American should be rooting for incompetence from the White House — like in its dealings with North Korea and Iran, for example. But it’s perfectly fine to root for incompetence on the White House’s legislative agenda, given the damage that would do to so many citizens. “What does not carry weight are arguments that Americans should still want the president to succeed,” Eliot A. Cohen, the Republican former State Department official, has written. Trump’s angering of a Republican senator like Corker — when Trump may need every Republican vote to pass a tax plan and when the Senate is conducting a serious investigation of his campaign — should cheer anyone who isn’t rooting for his success. In The Times. In a video, survivors of mass shootings and relatives of gun victims issue a powerful call for action. A Nobel Prize to cheer. The Nobel in economics awarded to Richard Thaler this morning is one for non-economists to celebrate. Thaler has spent decades pushing his field to take a more realistic view of human behavior — to acknowledge that people act irrationally much more often than economists once acknowledged. He started off as a lonely voice, along with Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, among others. These days, though, Thaler’s work is mainstream, and it’s affected government policy on retirement savings and other areas. (But it still hasn’t affected policy nearly as much as it should.) Thaler’s work is also among the most accessible in economics, as The Times’s Binyamin Appelbaum noted. If you’re up for the book-length version, you can read Thaler’s memoir, “Misbehaving,” or “Nudge,” which he co-wrote with Cass Sunstein. Quicker reads include Tyler Cowen’s blog post this morning, a 2009 interview with Thaler and a 2003 story that I wrote based on a Thaler lecture. I’ll confess to being thrilled about this prize. I met Thaler almost 20 years ago when I was a young economics reporter, and he’s become a tutor, mentor and friend. He brings an impish joy to the study of human behavior, and it comes through in his writing. The full Opinion report from The Times follows, including Gholamali Khoshroo, Iran’s ambassador to the United Nations, on the nuclear deal.