Saudi women are gaining the right to drive. American women are losing the right to employer-provided birth control. The first development signifies a theocratic kingdom’s bow to the inexorable onslaught of modernity. The second is a cynical bow to the forces of reaction against modernity. It would be too far a stretch to see in Saudi Arabia even the glimmer of the emergence of civil society. But it’s not much of a stretch to see in the rules issued by the Trump administration last week the fraying of civil society as the United States has known it. Ours is a diverse society in which all are expected, with limited and precisely defined exceptions, to abide by the rules that apply to all. The alternative, as Justice Antonin Scalia observed decades ago, “would be courting anarchy.” The new rules, which went into immediate effect, create exceptions that are anything but limited. They are, in fact, there for the taking. Any “entities” that claim not only religious but also “moral” objections to birth control are entitled to refuse to comply with the federal contraception mandate that until last Friday was enabling 55 million women to receive birth control without charge as part of their work- or college-related health insurance coverage. Which entities? The list is on page 161 of the administration’s 163-page announcement of its “interim final rule” on religious objections (a separate document applies to the moral objectors, a completely new concept in this five-year-old controversy). The list of religious objectors includes churches and religious orders (which from the beginning have been completely exempt from the mandate anyway); nonprofit organizations; a “closely held for-profit entity;” a “for-profit entity that is not closely held” (including publicly traded companies); and “any other nongovernmental employer” along with institutions of higher education. We are talking, in other words, about the American workplace. The administration might have saved itself a bunch of keystrokes by simply writing “anyone.” For the “moral” objectors, the universe described is slightly smaller, but only for the time being. Publicly traded companies are omitted from this privileged list for now, but the administration reserves the right to include them later and seems inclined to do so. It’s hard to overstate the radical nature of what has just happened. Just three years ago, in the Hobby Lobby case, the Supreme Court ruled that the Obama administration could not impose the mandate on a closely held for-profit business owned by a family with religious objections to birth control. But the decision did not end there. In his majority opinion, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. emphasized that the administration was already offering a workaround accommodation for religious nonprofit organizations that gave them a hands-free way to have birth control coverage available for their employees. All that these organizations had to do was notify the Department of Health and Human Services or their insurance administrators of their objection and the coverage would automatically flow to the female employees without any further involvement by the employer. The administration should do the same thing for Hobby Lobby and similar companies, the court said, emphasizing that the intended beneficiaries would suffer no loss of coverage: “The effect of the HHS-created accommodation on the women employed by Hobby Lobby and the other companies involved in these cases would be precisely zero. Under that accommodation, these women would still be entitled to all FDA-approved contraceptives without cost sharing.” Now the Trump administration has played the Supreme Court justices for chumps. The accommodation, carefully worked out and fought over, is a thing of the past. In its place is a flat-out exemption, with no requirement that women be offered any alternative route to coverage. “There are multiple federal, state, and local programs that provide free or subsidized contraceptives for low-income women,” the administration explained airily, noting that “many forms of contraception are available for around $50 per month.” Further, “As the government is under no constitutional obligation to fund contraception, even more so may the government refrain from requiring private citizens to cover contraception for other citizens in violation of their religious beliefs.” These statements call to mind a particularly callous old Supreme Court case, United States v. Kras, in which a man with an income of a few hundred dollars a month and unpaid bills of $6,000 tried to file for bankruptcy but ran up against the $50 filing fee. He challenged the constitutionality of the fee and lost. “There is no constitutional right to obtain a discharge of one’s debts in bankruptcy,” Justice Harry A. Blackmun wrote for the 5-to-4 majority, observing that the fee could be paid over time for about $2 a month — less, he pointed out, than the price of a movie. (This was 1973.) Justice Thurgood Marshall wrote a stinging dissent that accused the majority of having no understanding of how poor people actually live. “The desperately poor almost never go to see a movie, which the majority seems to believe is an almost weekly activity,” he wrote. The administration says the average price of a year’s birth control is $584. That’s probably low (an IUD can cost $1,000 up front, but the administration amortizes that cost over the five-year life of the product) but that’s not really the point. Others have called attention to the administration’s truly astonishing effort to show that birth control really isn’t all that important and may even be counterproductive. Statements like the one on page 46 of the religious exemption document, “Contraception’s association with positive health effects might also be partially offset by an association with negative health effects,” are hogwash, the result of careful cherry-picking of the literature, some of it quite dubious. One cited article from the Ave Maria Law Review by Michael J. New, a well-known anti-abortion activist, insists that there is “little evidence that increasing the use of contraception reduces the unintended pregnancy rate.” The real point is that the Trump administration has outsourced a crucially important building block of national health care policy, enabling a fanatical fringe of the Republican base to exercise raw political power, clothed in religiosity under cover of the grandiloquently named Religious Freedom Restoration Act. That 1993 law, passed by overwhelming bipartisan majorities and signed by President Bill Clinton, is the object of growing buyer’s remorse on the part of liberal and moderate Americans — and should be. To fully appreciate what happened last week, it’s important to understand what happened in the years following the Hobby Lobby decision. The Obama administration did as the Supreme Court said and offered the accommodation as Justice Alito described it. But a group of religiously affiliated nonprofits, mainly but not exclusively Catholic-run schools, colleges, nursing homes and other social service organizations, refused to accept it. Not good enough, they said, claiming that they would still be complicit in the sin of contraception, even if the employees’ receipt of the benefit required no action on the employer’s part beyond notifying the government that it was opting out. Only the complete exemption offered to actual churches would suffice. (It’s hard to understand how these employers justify giving their employees a paycheck that might be used to buy birth control, but I guess that’s a private matter.) The nonprofits took the Obama administration to court and lost almost everywhere. When seven cases reached the Supreme Court last year, consolidated under the name Zubik v. Burwell, the justices asked both sides whether they would accept an arrangement in which no opt-out notification was necessary. Yes, both said, resulting in the court’s decision to send the cases back to the lower courts to work out the details. But that was not to be. The administration insisted that no matter how the opt-out was handled, women must still be able to get “seamless” contraception coverage, that is, without having to apply for a separate plan and search for a doctor willing to accept the coverage. The nonprofits held fast and would not agree. The impasse lasted until the end of the Obama administration. The Trump administration’s rescission of the government’s birth control mandate, not only for these organizations but also for others that never even got around to asking for it, is thus a reward for intransigence matched only by the Senate’s blockade of the Supreme Court vacancy intended for Merrick Garland that it eventually handed to Neil Gorsuch. A half dozen lawsuits have already been filed against the federal government, and at least partial success in freezing or overturning the new rules is not out of the question. Putting the new policy into immediate effect without the usual “notice and comment” rule-making places the administration’s action on shaky procedural ground. Extending the rescission to employers with “moral” objections has no statutory basis. The Religious Freedom Restoration Act at least requires a claim that has something to do, however implausibly, with religion. It doesn’t, yet, license those who, like Melville’s Bartleby the Scrivener, “would prefer not to.” I used to think — in fact, I wrote last year — that the resistance to the contraception mandate was fueled by cultural conservatives’ determination not to let federal policy normalize birth control. But now I think it’s deeper than that. Conservatives, even the publicly pious ones, don’t seem to have a problem with limiting the size of their families. (Vice President Mike Pence has two children, and Attorney General Jeff Sessions has three. Need I say more?) The problem they have is with what birth control signifies: empowering women — in school, on the job, in the home — to determine their life course. That’s what they don’t want to normalize. It comes as no surprise which side Donald Trump is on; his administration’s action last week makes perfect sense. Or none at all.