In the wake of the Las Vegas massacre, politicians are once again promoting the politically expedient notion that better mental health care could stop such mass killings. Paul D. Ryan, the speaker of the House, said last week that “mental health reform is a critical ingredient to making sure that we can try and prevent some of these things from happening in the past.”  The public appears to share this view. A 2015 poll found that 63 percent of Americans blamed deficient mental health care rather than deficient gun regulations for these shootings. It’s true that many mass murderers do have a mental disorder, typically a severe personality disorder or a psychotic illness. But this fact has almost no implication for how to stop them. Why? First, a vast majority of these killers avoid the mental health care system. They are intent on murdering people, not on seeking help, and generally don’t see themselves as psychiatrically ill. Of the 92 documented mass killings from 1982 to 2017, only 15 percent of the perpetrators had any known previous contact with mental health professionals. Clearly, whatever psychiatric evaluation and treatment this small number of perpetrators had did not stop them from committing mass murder. Even if all of these killers had been seen by mental health professionals, it is still highly unlikely their crimes would have been prevented, because as a general matter it is very difficult, if not impossible, to predict who is likely to turn violent. Stephen Paddock, the Las Vegas gunman, is an object lesson in this regard. As an affluent 64-year-old gambling enthusiast with no relevant criminal history, he bore little resemblance to the typical mass murderer, who tends to be an angry young man seething with resentment and with a history of violent outbursts. An exhaustive search of Mr. Paddock’s life for a motive has so far turned up nothing. His brother, Eric, noted that Stephen was “the least violent in the family during my childhood.” I have no doubt that had Stephen Paddock seen a psychiatrist, he would not have raised suspicion of dangerousness. To put it another way, most mass killers are gun-owning, angry, white, paranoid males, but it is also a fact that nearly all men with these same characteristics will never commit a crime. In addition, the mentally ill contribute very little to overall violence in this country. Even if you were to eliminate all psychiatric illness from the population, the rate of violence would drop by only about 4 percent. (The contribution from mass killers is far smaller: In 2015, mass killings accounted for only 0.35 percent of gun-related homicides.) The disturbing reality is that a vast majority of homicide is committed by healthy people in the grip of everyday emotion using guns. That is exactly what many politicians don’t want the country to think about. Still, if we can’t predict human aggression, there is much that we can do to modify or contain its expression. For example, consider the success of using simple physical barriers to prevent suicide. A 2015 meta-analysis showed that installing large safety nets beneath suicide “hot spots” like San Francisco’s Golden Gate Bridge was highly effective in cutting suicide risk. The death rate from suicide dropped from an average of 5.8 suicides per year before the nets were installed to an average of 2.4 deaths per year after. Intriguingly, in most cases there was no increase of suicide by jumping at other hot spots. In other words, taking away one means of self-harm did not result in the substitution of an alternative one. The same appears to be true for homicide. Countries that limit access to deadly firearms have a fraction of the gun homicide rate of the United States. Australia, for example, severely restricted access to guns following a 1996 mass killing, and the gun homicide rate dropped by half and stayed there. In 2012, the United States had a homicide-by-firearm rate of 29.7 per million people compared with 1.4 for Australia. Contrary to what some gun-rights enthusiasts claim, people who are deprived of guns do not simply find a new way to harm themselves or others. Countries that have reasonable gun control, for example, do not have a compensatory epidemic of lethal knife attacks. So let’s stop pretending we can detect mass killers in advance. But we can deprive them — and everyone else — of the deadly weapons they require to turn their impulses into carnage.