LAST March, Amazon quietly changed the way it sells books. An obscure and seemingly harmless modification to its website has opened the door for some third-party sellers to deceive Amazon’s customers by selling books as “new” that may not come straight from a publisher or its wholesaler, thus depriving authors of royalties they should have earned from the sale of a new book. Amazon decided to allow third-party sellers to be featured atop the primary purchase button for new books, a spot previously reserved for Amazon’s own inventory, which comes directly from the publishers. Approved third-party sellers “win” this placement through a secret algorithm that considers, among other things, price, availability, seller’s rating and shipping time. In doing so, Amazon abdicates its role as the prime retailer on its own website. The main requirement is that the books offered by the third-party seller must be “new.” So when you, the customer, hit that main buy button, you should always expect to get a brand-new book, right? Not necessarily. To explain why, we have to take a journey into the underbelly of the book market. Have you ever asked yourself, when shopping for books on Amazon, how third-party sellers can be offering dozens of “new” books at prices way below even the discounted Amazon price? The reason is that such books could have been bought in bulk by a handful of giant online third-party sellers to be re-sold through Amazon as “new” books, when some are not. Where do these gray market books originate? There are several possible sources. Bookstores can return unsold books for credit. The publisher or distributor will sometimes sell these returns at a discount in bulk as overstocks, or sell excess inventory as remainders. Huge online bookstores buy these books (perfectly legal). Often, these books are marked with a line indicating they are remainders. But sometimes, they are not. In such cases, the online bookstore might resell them as “new” on Amazon. Blemished books also seem to feed the gray market for “new” books. Bookstores will return shopworn books or those damaged in shipping under the category of “hurt books.” The publisher sells these books as used books. Online bookstores may buy them in bulk, sort through them, and resell as “new” the least damaged through Amazon. Publishers sell books to international wholesalers at large discounts on a non-returnable basis. By contract these books must be sold abroad, but wholesalers could quietly dump these books in the American market through a third-party seller on Amazon, cheating the publisher. Print-on-demand has created a new unscrupulous enterprise, that of counterfeiting books. These books look perfect; there is no way for the customer to tell they are illegal. And finally, a number of review copies are sent out free to media outlets. They are not supposed to be sold. Some book sellers apparently have standing arrangements with magazine conglomerates and television networks to bulk purchase all the review copies they receive, which they could presumably then sell on Amazon. While this isn’t strictly illegal, it is unethical — and terribly unfair to authors and publishers. These third-party sellers may not always be selling “new” books, according to Amazon’s own published definitions on its website, which, in part, read: “New: A brand-new, unused, unread copy in perfect condition. The dust cover and original protective wrapping, if any, is intact.” “Used — Like New: Dust cover is intact, with no nicks or tears. Spine has no signs of creasing. Pages are clean and not marred by notes or folds of any kind.” In many of these sales, the author gets zilch, or close to zilch. And, according to the Independent Book Publishers Association, which has been conducting its own research into the issue by purchasing books on Amazon, the customer is sometimes sold a used book under false pretenses. Publishers and authors, deprived of income and royalties, have long worried about this gray market. Amazon, to its credit, quickly tightened up its definition of a “new” book, to the one cited above. These definitions make clear that remainders are not regarded as “new” books, and the company insists that it follows a strict policy as to what qualifies. “Only new books are eligible to be featured in the U.S. Books New Buy Box and be the ‘primary offer’ on a book’s detail page, whether offered from third party sellers or Amazon,” a company spokersperson said. “We move quickly to address any violations. These recent changes mean that our U.S. online bookstore now works like the rest of Amazon.com, where third party sellers compete with Amazon for the sale of new items.” The Authors Guild has urged publishers to keep better track of remainders, overstocks and excess-discount sales, and some publishers have responded. But the cost of policing the market, marking and tracking books, and suing malefactors has proved daunting. Remainder overstock sales bring some revenue for publishers, but the authors receive little to no royalties. Amazon, in its drive to take over the book market, has made a change that, at least inadvertently, can mislead its own customers and be hurtful to authors. The Amazon action comes at a time when authors are struggling more than ever to make a living in the harsh economics of the digital marketplace. Amazon’s policy will help undermine authors’ incomes even further if it directs customers to “new” books for which the author receives no royalty. Comments posted online by buyers of everything from camera equipment to fountain pens suggest that Amazon’s third-party sellers sometimes operate in a broadly gray area, failing to disclose provenance before a sale. Only after buyers try to repair broken items do they learn warranties aren’t honored because the goods are gray. Amazon does what it can to rein in bad actors but it is at the top of a slippery slope in turning over its main buy button for new books to third-party sellers. This policy is bad for books, bad for authors and bad for Amazon’s customers.