You know something is wrong when Wall Street loan sharks show more heart than the president of the United States. Last week, some of the companies that hold Puerto Rico’s $74 billion in debt and had been suing to force payment, no matter the consequences, started talking about cutting the island a break after Hurricanes Irma and Marie. One firm said it was dropping its lawsuit (at least for now). A top executive of a mutual fund admitted that Wall Street miscalculated the risk of buying all those unsustainable tax-free bonds from Puerto Rico in the first place and may actually have to lose some money on the deal. After all, said Dan Fuss, vice chairman of Loomis Sayles & Co.: “They are U.S. citizens. We are U.S. citizens. We have an obligation to help.” President Trump, who has made some halfhearted and condescending efforts to show concern about Puerto Rico, is having none of that nonsense. In one of his deranged early-morning Twitter rants, Trump said on Thursday that Puerto Rico’s “infrastructure was disaster before hurricanes.” He said Congress, which he knows perfectly well can’t do much of anything, has to “decide how much to spend” and warned that he “cannot keep” federal disaster relief officials and the military in “P.R. forever!” He quoted a public-affairs show host for the right-wing Sinclair Broadcast Group as saying the financial crisis in Puerto Rico is “largely of their own making.” Puerto Rico’s government and business bear a responsibility for the financial crisis there, but even more so do American bankers and Congress, which dragged its feet on the issue for far too long. Trump must be aware that Puerto Ricans are citizens of the United States, even though they have always been treated as second-class citizens. After all, he was just there recently, tossing rolls of “beautiful, soft” paper towels into a crowd with that familiar smug look on his face. Trump must know that he has made no threat to withdraw aid from Texas — which, unlike Puerto Rico, he considers part of his constituency — and that federal disaster aid and recovery efforts often take years. He also possesses detailed, highly technical knowledge about Puerto Rico. He knows, for example, that it “is an island, surrounded by water. Big water. Ocean water.” But the president’s handling of the disaster in Puerto Rico has been shameful from the start. He heaped scorn on San Juan’s mayor for appealing for help to what she assumed was his humanity. And he whined that Puerto Ricans had “thrown our budget a little out of whack,” because of course they must have planned the hurricane. He also congratulated Puerto Ricans during his recent visit on having suffered only 16 deaths from the hurricane, unlike a “real catastrophe.” (Shortly after Trump left, the office of Gov. Ricardo Rosselló announced that the death toll was more that twice that, which Trump and Rosselló had to know when they met. It beggars belief that 19 more bodies were discovered while Trump was climbing the stairs to his airplane.) As usual, it’s impossible to divine Trump’s precise motivations. Maybe he was trying to distract attention from all the other ways he is harming American citizens by gutting Obamacare, advocating a huge tax break for rich folks like him, threatening nuclear war, trying to withdraw from the North American Free Trade Agreement, shredding environmental protections and, well, it’s too long a list for this column. Maybe he heard something on a politically friendly TV show and decided to regurgitate it on Twitter. Or maybe he just believes, as so many other American politicians sadly do, that Puerto Ricans are inferior and that they are freeloaders. Trump has a sorry history in this area that goes back to 1973, when the federal government sued the company he ran with his father for discriminating against Puerto Ricans, blacks and other minorities. Trump, who settled out of court, said they weren’t discriminating. They just didn’t want to rent to welfare recipients, which is dog whistle code for minorities. Puerto Rico’s residents are our brothers and sisters, our fellow citizens. They deserve better than this kind of treatment from the president. Then again, we all do.