This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Floridians are “amazing people,” President Trump tweeted after Hurricane Irma. “We’re going to see some of the folks and make sure they’re happy,” he said in Fort Myers. Texans, for their part, “have done a fantastic job of getting things together” after Harvey. “We are with you today, we are with you tomorrow, and we will be with you EVERY SINGLE DAY AFTER, to restore, recover, and REBUILD!” he told Texas. Florida received the same message, right down to the: “EVERY SINGLE DAY.” And Puerto Ricans? They “want everything to be done for them,” Trump has tweeted. “We cannot keep FEMA, the Military & the First Responders, who have been amazing (under the most difficult circumstances) in P.R. forever!” After Harvey made landfall, Trump used his weekly video address to deliver a message of unity. “When one part of America hurts, we all hurt,” he said. “We don’t ask their names or where they are from — we help our fellow Americans every single time.” It’s almost as if he didn’t mean it. Taxes for truckers. Where do you think the article with this lead sentence appeared yesterday:  President Trump pitched his tax overhaul plans to truckers on Wednesday evening, though many of the men and women behind the wheels of U.S. trucks may see little or no direct benefit. A liberal site or mainstream media organization? Nope. It appeared on Breitbart. The site runs some straightforward articles, amid its demagogy, and this piece was one of them. Its skeptical take highlights a big vulnerability with Trump’s tax plan. The plan is quite obviously not a middle-class or working-class tax cut. It’s a tax cut for the wealthy, in which the benefits for everyone else are somewhere between small and nonexistent. So there is little reason for Trump’s white working-class base, and nationalist organizations like Breitbart, to rally to the plan. The politics of this issue aren’t the same as the politics of immigration, terrorism, guns or national anthem protests. I still assume that congressional Republicans are likely to find some way to pass a tax cut that Trump can sign. But it won’t be easy, especially given the deep flaws of the initial draft and Trump’s deteriorating relationship with Congress. Note: I’m going to begin more frequently highlighting material from sources popular with Trump supporters. As always, your feedback is welcome, at leonhardt@nytimes.com.