LOS ANGELES — I grew up thinking my mom was the pinnacle of virtue. When I was young, she told me that she had lied only once (a lie in itself). The story of that lie was of mythic importance to our family: When my mother was a kid in Kolkata, India, there was a “pani puri” cart across the street from her house, but she wasn’t allowed to eat from it in the afternoons for fear that she’d ruin her appetite for dinner. Pani puri is a small crackerlike pocket of unleavened bread that’s deep-fried and filled with a mixture of tamarind water, potatoes, chickpeas and spices. It’s delicious. Anyway, my mom ate from the pani puri cart one night and lied to my grandma about it. Not eating dinner in my family is a deadly sin, so with her stomach full, my mother begged off by saying she had diarrhea. (Indians talk about digestive issues pretty casually, but that’s beside the point.) This story wasn’t told to my family as a warning about how it is wrong to lie to your parents. The story was told to show that even my mother, an exceedingly virtuous woman, would lie for the noblest cause: the pursuit of pani puri. This dish is more than just tasty Indian street food. It represents everything I love about my culture that friends who aren’t Indian don’t usually understand. This snack is very interactive. The lucky eater must use a finger to pierce the hollow lentil casing of fried dough, and then fill it with a mixture of potato and canned chickpeas. The next step is to pour tamarind water into the stuffed puri and quickly shove the entire thing into your mouth. There is no way to look dignified while eating pani puri. It is a dribbly, joyful mess. In the Indian-American community in Cincinnati, where I grew up, we would frequently gather and eat pani puri until we were so full our stomachs seemed about to burst. (This is known within the community as consuming one serving size.) We didn’t need an occasion like the fall festival of Diwali, coming up next week, to gather, but the excuse of a holiday didn’t hurt. The children would eat first and make a gigantic mess, laughing with our mouths wide open, our table manners sloppy enough to make any person with an average sense of etiquette clutch her pearls. Then we’d clean the mess, leave the table and let our parents recreate the chaos. I remember so vividly hearing, from the basement, the bellowing laughter of our moms and dads, uncles and aunties. Pani puri is not a dish for tense conversations. It is loud, funny and rich in flavor, and so are the conversations it inspires. Moving from East to West often means conforming to Western standards and formalities. For my parents, that meant keeping up the appearance of adhering to American etiquette. Dinnertime could be a private affair: My parents didn’t want to be seen eating with their hands. They thought it would make them seem uncivilized, even though eating with one’s hands is considered perfectly civil — even the norm — where they come from. Yet, with pani puri, it was different. They showed unquestionable pride in teaching my American friends how to eat it, and it would be wildly uncivil to eat pani puri with a fork and knife. And the mess is part of the fun. The language of enjoying this Indian dish is simple. There’s no etiquette required. Serves: 7-10 Time: About 35 minutes Ingredients: 8 medium red potatoes 5 tablespoons chunky chat masala 5 tablespoons pani puri masala 1 tablespoon tamarind paste Green chili peppers or serrano peppers, chopped, to taste Cilantro, to taste Salt, to taste 1 tablespoon ground roasted cumin seeds 1 29-ounce can of chickpeas, drained About 60 pani puri shells Step 1: Cook potatoes in a microwave, whole, skins on and pricked in several places with a fork, or peeled, quartered and boiled in salted water on a stove. (I like using the microwave because some have a “potato” button and I can absolve myself from responsibility.) Step 2: While the potatoes cook until fork-tender, make the tamarind water: In a medium bowl, whisk together 1 tablespoon of chunky chat masala, 1 tablespoon of pani puri masala, the tamarind paste and 2 cups of water. It should be the color of cough syrup (but smell confusingly appetizing). Add the green chili pepper, cilantro and salt to taste. It’s best to go for a little spicier than you can handle, and just keep some Pepto-Bismol on hand. Step 3: Place the cumin seeds in a small pan over low heat and toast until fragrant, 3 to 4 minutes, occasionally shaking the pan and being careful not to burn them. Remove from heat and grind in a spice grinder or using a mortar and pestle. Set aside. Step 4: If you used a microwave, when the potatoes are cooked, peel the skins off before placing them in a large bowl. If your fingertips burn, give the potatoes to your mom or an auntie who may have a higher heat tolerance. If you boiled the potatoes on the stove, drain them before placing them in the bowl. Step 5: Pour chickpeas into a medium bowl and heat in the microwave for 1 minute. Add them to the potatoes and mash together. Add the remaining chunky chat masala, the remaining pani puri masala, cumin, chili peppers and cilantro to taste. Mix well. Make your mom or auntie taste it. They can fix it behind your back so that you can still take all of the credit. Pour enough tamarind water, up to ½ cup, into the potato mix to make it a soft consistency that holds together. Step 6: To eat, take a puri shell and crack open a hole in the middle with your fingernail. Stuff it with as much potato mix as you can, then dunk it into the tamarind water to fill any remaining space. Step 7: Shove it in your mouth. Spoil your appetite.