Santa Rosa, Calif. — Just a week ago, talk in Sonoma’s wine country bemoaned the vagaries of Mother Nature. It was the finish to a difficult harvest, when record heat shriveled grapes and forced a mad scramble to salvage the crop. How naïve that seems now. If only we had known. On Sunday night, fierce wind gusts whipped up a firestorm that roared down the hill from Napa into Sonoma and destroyed thousands of homes in a few hours. Fingers of fire from blazes burning all at once lit up the sky. And it had come out of nowhere, without warning, in the dead of night. For those first hours, it was panic and chaos. Some got out because they smelled smoke. Others because a neighbor pounded on the door. For us, it was a call from the newspaper where I work. Traffic at 2 a.m. was like rush hour. But it wasn’t until we rounded a corner that we got the full view of the ridgeline behind the city glowing red against the night sky. And it stretched forever. In an instant, I was back in my childhood home seeing the same terrifying glow behind those same hills. It was the big fire of 1964, until this week Sonoma’s worst. A police officer was pounding on the door and my mother, usually a rule follower, was defying his order to leave right that minute. She smiled sweetly, but grabbed her silver and threw it in a pillowcase before escaping. We drove through that long ago night to safety at my aunt’s house and our home survived the fire that burned to the backyard hill. But in another version of that scene, one that lives on for me in a recurring nightmare, we run in place with hearts pounding while the flames close in around us. It is a bit like that here now. Fires continue to burn in the surrounding hills, nowhere near control. Tens of thousands of people have been forced from their homes and don’t know when they can go back. Many don’t know what they will return to. Many more know that their homes are gone. As we try to pull together, those of us whose homes didn’t burn can’t find the words for those whose homes did. We feed them, we console them, we take them into our homes. But we can’t know their loss. Sonoma County has about 500,000 residents, and it is not exaggerating to say that everyone knows someone who has lost a home. This isn’t a one-news cycle disaster in which sympathy comes readily, evaporates quickly and doesn’t really translate to your life. Everyone is growing tired: tired of being displaced, tired of not knowing if their homes have been incinerated, tired of staying with well-meaning friends. The same questions are circulating: Why were there no warnings? Where were the planes to attack the flames from the air? Where were the firefighters that first night? How did the fire start? Still, life is beginning to return to downtown Santa Rosa, which for three days was empty. The mall has reopened and at the Clinique counter in Macy’s they are offering receipts for your insurance company. Smoke hangs low and thick, still spreading across the San Francisco Bay Area. Face masks are a common accessory. We think we are adapting and then we choke at the silliest things. For me, it was the charred cross atop the skeletal beams still standing at the Catholic school our sons attended, the misshapen child-crafted ceramic trinket my cousin pulled from the rubble that was her home or the pizzas sent by editors in Boston and Salt Lake City to feed a newsroom working around the clock. The worst day was Monday. Two neighborhoods that burned in Santa Rosa, the county seat and largest metro area between San Francisco and Portland, tell a story of unexpected and indiscriminate destruction. One was Fountaingrove, the upscale hilltop subdivision that was home to doctors, lawyers and community leaders. The fire there was capricious in that way of natural disasters, one home taken but another spared. Yesterday afternoon, a fawn limped across the moonscape between one of each. Those who believe recurring wildfires make it folly to develop California’s wooded hillsides said so Monday, pointing to Fountaingrove as a disaster waiting to happen. The 1964 fire raced through this area, but there were no homes built yet. Planning scenarios devised in the intervening years have often raised the specter of death and disaster if another blaze were to burn along the same path. On Monday, a new fire station atop the ridge was engulfed in flames by 6 a.m. But the other leveled subdivision, Coffey Park, is on the opposite side of Highway 101, the region’s main artery. It is home to teachers, police officers and firefighters. No one ever imagined October’s Diablo winds, gusting to 74 miles per hour that night, would have driven fire down the mountain 10 miles in six hours to jump the freeway. The cadaver dogs are in Coffey Park now, looking for victims. It is leveled flat, the chimneys standing like markers in a cemetery. Sonoma and Napa are still surrounded by the seasonal wildfires that are California’s own recurring nightmare. These have become the deadliest in state history after moving from the open landscape into cities. As the hills continue to burn, we can’t seem to shake an edgy feeling. The devil winds might have blown in a reminder that what life asks of us sometimes comes out of nowhere, without warning, in the dead of night.