This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Since Obamacare became law, it’s been subject to one challenge after another. Some challenges have truly been existential, like the 2012 Supreme Court case and this year’s repeal effort in Congress. Others have had the potential to do damage without undermining the entire law. President Trump’s actions last week are in the second category. “This stuff is really bad, but it’s not nearly as bad as repeal,” as Aviva Aron-Dine, of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, told me. Jonathan Cohn, of HuffPost, has made the same point: “The damage is not catastrophic. But it is real and it will linger.” What can you do about this? That’s a good question to ask, since citizen activism played a crucial role in defeating the repeal efforts this year. My column today offers a guide for people who believe in decent medical care and want to defend it against Trump. Bursting your information bubble. I mentioned last week that I was going to start regularly giving you a sense of what Trump supporters are reading and hearing. Below are some excerpted reactions to Trump’s new health care policies. There’s a theme in many of these descriptions: They depend on a basic misperception about the way that insurance works. They praise Trump for making insurance plans cheaper. And plans would become cheaper for some healthy people, because they would be buying bare-bones plans in markets dominated by other healthy people. But prices would soar for people with medical conditions, and many healthy people would ultimately suffer, too. When they or one of their relatives became ill, the bare-bones plan often wouldn’t cover needed treatments — and good insurance plans would be prohibitively expensive. Trump would, in effect, undermine the entire idea of insurance. But you wouldn’t know that from listening to these sources: Rush Limbaugh, on his radio show: “This change will allow for the market to begin creating policies that match the need and desire of customers, meaning they’re going to be allowed to scrub existing policies and rewrite new ones that only offer X coverage of this, this coverage, that coverage, not mandate universal coverage for every damn thing that a young 25 year old guy will never need, like contraception coverage.” Sean Hannity, on his television show: “It’s a miracle because now you can form an association, a group where you can buy plans across state lines which corporations have been able to do that have different offices and different cities ... which is great. That means competition buying across state lines.” David Harsanyi, in The Federalist: “The price of insurance for Obamacare consumers will not change because of the president’s actions. ... It’s good news for those who genuinely care about process and the most basic workings of the Constitution.”  Liquid sugar. Last week’s repeal of the soda tax in Chicago’s home county is disappointing. Soda taxes can do a lot of good, and they were on a winning streak. But public health advocates shouldn’t get discouraged. “While the Cook County ruling is a setback in the struggle to take on the Big Soda, it’s a clear reminder of what it will take to win,” write Anna Lappé and Christina Bronsing-Lazalde. “There’s no substitute for good old-fashioned community building.”