OAKLAND, Calif. — My neighbors are picking lemons from their tree in gas masks. My husband is overnighting us particulate masks to breathe through because Home Depot and all the Ace Hardware stores nearby are sold out, just like they sold out of every single fan in August, during the heat wave. It’s the latest version of California’s new normal: Add masks to your emergency kit, don’t breathe deeply and try to stay inside. When I woke up one morning last week with a nose bleed and a wracking cough, I decided to give in and order that particulate mask, but first I consulted with friends. “Is N95 the same as P95?” Liat asked, as we huddled over my laptop. My nurse friend said to search for N95, but the old bepreparedcalifornia.ca.gov pdf that is circulating uses a “P,” and Keally says the one put out by the pre-Pruitt Environmental Protection Agency is better. Seth sends out more links about smaller-size masks to a group of neighborhood parents because the ones we bought don’t come in kid sizes. It’s been seven days now of some of the Bay Area’s worst ever air quality, and most of the fires north of us in Sonoma, Napa and Mendocino counties are minimally contained, or not at all. The smog enveloping Oakland, Berkeley, San Jose and other cities is literal and figurative: There has been little clarity about how best to protect ourselves. The consensus seems to be that we’re not supposed to exercise, that we should refrain from driving as much as possible and that if we do venture outside we should be wearing the kind of heavy-duty face masks that keep out the smallest particulate matter, these gray ashes that are falling from the sky. My friend Iris and I brainstorm about the most airtight public spaces, places like movie theaters or hospitals that can filter air for large numbers of people, so we can gather there. She researches which filters really work for smoke pollution, and texts a group of us to say her living room will have the filter on at all times for anyone who needs to come over. So many of my friends work remotely — writers and freelancers who often sit in the Bay Area breeze all day, squinting into their laptops. But the coffee shops and co-working spaces aren’t airtight, and today my usual ones are mostly empty. I’m writing this from the public library in East Oakland, because my friend Samantha said if you work from home that’s the best place to go right now — most public libraries have central air filtration and are not pulling the smoky air from the outside. Another friend, Jessie, tells me that the library at San Francisco’s Civic Center is unusually packed with hipsters. We are checking two websites nonstop: one for the fire monitoring and one for air quality. The websites keep crashing, though, I think because they weren’t built for this much traffic. But this is the Bay Area, after all — we want the right maps, and we want them fast. “You can’t even zoom in on the air quality map,” I catch myself complaining. There’s a gray light over everything all day long. On the last six evenings, we’ve had what in any other situation you’d call a gorgeous sunset, the bright orange sun a perfect disk framed in gray between the Marin Headlands. But as I step out of my car I look away from it, shielding my face from its apocalyptic light. I wonder if this will become our new way of life, if slowly we’re just going to get used to avoiding the air. My husband reminds me not to turn on the air conditioner or central fan in our house because it will bring in smoke from outside. I press down every window to make sure it’s tight, and cancel a run with my neighbor after work because neither of us wants to even walk the slight uphill climb to the park. People I’ve never thought could relate to this situation write to me on the internet. My friend who used to live in China posts advice on my Facebook wall about how to survive air pollution and when to decide enough is enough, and leave. It can feel that way here right now — some of our best-known tourist destinations burned to ashes, regular avalanches on our highways. A friend notes that we can no longer refer to a “fire season” in California because the inferno of fires just seem to blend one into the next. It’s enough to make anyone start thinking about Armageddon. “Maybe it won’t be livable for much longer here,” Iris says over tea, “maybe we should start planning to move.” “But also,” Ellie says, “where would we go? It’s not like there aren’t disasters happening everywhere.” I walk into a clothing swap one night and a woman there is talking about her aunt who has lost everything: home, clothing, decades of memories. I sit on the couch and nod along. “Yeah,” I say, “it’s awful up there.” “Oh,” she says, tilting her head toward me, “this is actually in Puerto Rico.”