This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. The humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico, by the numbers: More than 80 percent: The portion of the island’s electric grid that is not functioning. 28 percent: The share of Puerto Rican residents who lack running water. 72 percent: The share of residents who have running water and thus are subject to the health department recommendation that people boil or disinfect their water before drinking it. 100 percent: The share who are in one of the two previous categories. 40 percent: The share of residents who lack a cellphone signal. 20, out of 51: The number of sewage-treatment plants not functioning. 5, out of 18: The number of toxic-waste sites that have not been inspected by the Environmental Protection Agency since the hurricane. Close to half: The portion of hospitals without electricity. 48: The official death toll, although health experts believe — and media reports suggest — the real number to be higher. (Sources: CNN, NBC, Stat, The Washington Post.) Where, oh where, is the urgency from Washington about this crisis? The “message out of Washington amounts to a doctrine of personal responsibility and culpability applied only to Puerto Rico and its people,” writes The Atlantic’s Vann Newkirk II, “not the other areas of the United States affected by recent storms.” A response on taxes. My column last week urged two top Trump administration officials — Gary Cohn and Steven Mnuchin — to stop telling lies about their tax plan. Wilbur Ross, the secretary of commerce, replies in a letter to the editor that the column was unfair because “the details of the tax bill have not yet been released.” The trouble with this argument is that virtually no independent expert believes that any bill can be consistent with both the administration’s initial framework and its pledge that the bill won’t mostly benefit the wealthy. Ross, in his letter, repeats that pledge: “tax reform will result in a system at least as progressive as current law.” I’m happy to revisit this issue when the full bill is released and admit it if I was wrong. Related: Paul Krugman, with the help of charts, walks through 10 lies he sees about the tax plan. You can also now follow him on Facebook. Also: The actor and writer Mayim Bialik responded to readers on Facebook Live yesterday about her recent piece on feminism and Harvey Weinstein.