It wasn’t until April 1975 that women had a word for talking about what their male bosses were doing to them. It was that month that I first used the phrase “sexual harassment” in public, during a hearing on women in the workplace by the New York City Human Rights Commission, at which I was testifying as an instructor at Cornell University. The New York Times covered the hearing in an article that was reprinted across the country. And thus, a concept was born. At first, it felt as if the term had the potential to change everything. Working women immediately took up the phrase, which finally captured the sexual coercion they were experiencing daily. No longer did they have to explain to their friends and family that “he hit on me and wouldn’t take no for an answer, so I had to quit.” What he did had a name. Now women could share stories and strategies. They understood that they weren’t alone, that millions of working women shared their experience. It was as if a light had been turned on in a dark room. The solidarity that women felt for one another was contagious; sisterhood in the workplace suddenly seemed doable. Perhaps we might even see the start of a national working women’s union — it is easy to pick off one woman at a time for sexual harassment, but not so easy if women all look out for one another. The enthusiasm with which women embraced the idea of sexual harassment indicated an intense desire to change conditions for themselves at work; our new vocabulary would help. Or so I thought. It was only a few years later, toward the end of a book tour, when I began to suspect things weren’t changing the way I’d hoped. During an appearance on a radio show, the host — who, moments before, had been happily discussing sexual harassment with me — responded to two girls who called in to say they were being asked to perform sexual favors and didn’t know what to do by calling them “whores.” I walked off the show — but this would prove an ominous sign of things to come. The decades since have been disappointing. The working women’s revolution I once envisioned hasn’t happened. But not only that, the term, which once held so much promise, has been co-opted, sanitized, stripped of its power to shock, disturb and galvanize. Today the term “sexual harassment” may be ubiquitous; the behavior, unfortunately, remains ubiquitous, too. In one sense, “sexual harassment” as a concept has been a success. Companies and corporations have put in place rules prohibiting it. Training programs against sexual harassment are now standard; employees across the country can testify to enduring dry videos and handouts urging them not to ask their co-workers about their sex lives. It has even spawned its own cottage industries: At one point in the 1980s thousands of women found employment in middle management as sexual harassment officers, though this is less common today. Lawyers, too, have found lucrative work settling sexual harassment cases. Women — when they have the resources — have means of seeking redress that weren’t available to them before. But if giving the behavior a name has done much to change our rules, it has done far less to encourage the conversations I had envisioned back in 1975 that I believed would help to change our culture. Nor has it changed the power dynamics that allow sexual harassment to flourish — think of the female human-resources manager facing complaints about a company’s star. Worse, it allows those who would argue that the culture and power dynamics have changed to fall back on the new rules as evidence. We’ve taken a term that once spoke to women about revolution and made it bloodless. “Sexual harassment” was never meant to be a term that the corporate world would feel comfortable tossing around. It is a vicious practice — one that flourishes because men hold authority over women at work, and they use it to extract sex and to humiliate. If the price of popularizing the notion of sexual harassment has been to dampen its impact, it’s now time to reclaim and redefine the term as the ugly thing it is — to imbue it with its initial power. How should we do this? By talking about the details — every time. By making the reality of what it looks like clear. Sexual harassment shouldn’t be associated with H.R. training manuals, but with men who demand oral sex while they talk on the phone, with bosses who grope their secretaries, and with those who, in general, think women at work are ornaments for their pleasure, not colleagues who deserve respect. In this context, the most valuable part of the exposures of men like Harvey Weinstein and Roger Ailes may lie in the excruciating, unforgettable details. This is where the heart of understanding the truth of sexual harassment resides and how we begin to understand again that this offense is deadly serious. Over the years — and later, the decades — when I would despair about the lack of widespread change, people would seek to reassure me: “It is changing. Everyone knows how to talk about it now. And before they didn’t.” I still believe in the power of words to change culture. But culture changes more slowly than rules. So much work from so many went into those early years for this issue to be recognized. “Sexual harassment” cannot lose its teeth now. We cannot permit it to be swallowed up as corporate-friendly legalese.