Few landscapes remain virtually untrammeled by the growing impact of the planet’s seven and a half billion inhabitants — places where the natural environment is so overwhelmingly intact and truly wild that coming across so much as a boot print is a surprise. It seems unlikely in this day and age, but such areas do still exist. The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is one such place. Lies and misrepresentations have characterized this Arctic region as a “barren wasteland.” In fact, this is a landscape of surprising beauty and biological diversity: 31,000 square miles of the craggy Brooks Range, valleys of spruce forest and flower-filled tundra extending north to the Arctic Ocean. In this terrain and the adjacent Arctic Ocean, you’ll find roughly 700 kinds of plants and a multitude of different species: 200 bird, 47 mammal and 42 fish species. It’s a place of living grandeur. Those of us who have explored the Arctic refuge treasure seeing grizzly bears, wolves, Dall sheep and thundering herds of caribou. With awe we have watched golden eagles and flocks of migrating birds from across the globe, many of which nest there in the summer after a winter spent in such faraway places as the Amazon, the coastal wetlands of Patagonia or the Sundarbans mangrove swamps of Bangladesh. Yet this stunning landscape is now in the cross hairs of the United States Congress. Republicans are using the budget reconciliation process to allow oil drilling in the refuge in order to generate revenue to offset the cost of tax reform. This expedited process allows Republicans in the Senate, where they hold a narrow edge, to pass a reconciliation bill with a simple majority, bypassing a filibuster from the Democrats. This is not the way we should consider a measure that threatens irreversible damage to our wilderness heritage. The refuge was originally suggested for protection in the early 1950s, when Alaska was not yet a state. To investigate its conservation value, Olaus Murie, the president of the Wilderness Society, and his wife, Mardy, who both had spent years in Alaska, suggested a biological survey to Fairfield Osborn, president of the New York Zoological Society (now the Wildlife Conservation Society). The Sheenjek River Valley and surrounding areas on the southern slopes of the Brooks Range were selected as the focus of the expedition. In the summer of 1956 the Muries and a team — consisting of the ornithologist Brina Kessel from the University of Alaska, along with graduate students Robert Krear and one of us (Dr. Schaller) — roamed these remote mountains. They made lists of plants and animals and absorbed, in Olaus Murie’s words, “the precious intangible values” of the place. As early as 1952, Dr. Schaller noted that oil development had already begun in northern Alaska. He wrote the secretary of interior, Fred Seaton, warning that unless the region were shielded from development it “may in future years resemble one of the former Texas oil fields.” In 1960, the Eisenhower administration established the nearly nine million acre Arctic National Wildlife Range to preserve “the unique wildlife, wilderness and recreational values” of this landscape. Congress and the Carter administration doubled the size of the refuge, to 18 million acres, in 1980 under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act, renaming the area as the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. (With an addition, it is now 19.6 million acres.) Native people retained their hunting rights, and licensed trophy hunters were permitted to kill Dall sheep and caribou. The refuge also includes the 1.5 million acre “1002 area” adjoining the Arctic Ocean. This swath of coastal plain is thought to be rich in oil and gas, and even though vast portions of the Arctic slope and coastal waters of northern Alaska are open for oil leasing and drilling, the Trump administration, and oil interests and their allies in Congress want to invade and squander this pristine area, which takes up less than 5 percent of the coastal plain. This part of the Arctic slope extending northward from the Brooks Range to the Arctic Ocean is a critical site for polar bears to make their dens and give birth. It is also the calving ground of America’s largest caribou herd, which migrates widely through the region. The Gwich’in Indians of Arctic Village in the Brooks Range and the Inupiat of Kaktovik on the coastal plain depend on the animal for food and clothing. The Gwich’in call the calving area that oil companies hope to develop “the sacred place where life begins.” As Trimble Gilbert, chief of Arctic Village, said: “We hurt because we see the land being destroyed,” and added that “we believe we have something to teach the world about living a simple life, about sharing, about protecting the land.” On the 50th anniversary of the Murie expedition in 2006, the explorer and author Jonathan Waterman organized a return trip to the Arctic refuge. We joined the team, along with graduate students Forrest McCarthy and Betsy Young. It was exhilarating for Dr. Schaller to return after 50 years and still find no roads, no buildings, no garbage. On the Sheenjek River, even an eagle nest he had seen on a cliff in 1956 was still there. Arctic loons still called near our camp on Last Lake, and caribou continued to meander across the coastal plain as we floated first the Canning and then the Hula Hula Rivers. On this trip, we visited the famous Prudhoe Bay oil field on the Arctic slope. After a major petroleum discovery in 1968, an 800-mile pipeline was constructed to transport oil to southern Alaska. Oil started flowing in 1977. Look at Prudhoe Bay and all its satellite fields now. Those who treasure the splendor of industrial sprawl must visit this morass of pipe lines, buildings drilling rigs, gravel pits, roads and pools of toxic chemicals. Prudhoe Bay is the largest oil field in North America and one of the top 20 globally. It has undoubtedly brought wealth and prosperity to Alaska, but spills of oil and chemicals, large and small, take place each year. Various laws require that this region be cleaned up once the oil has been exhausted. But who will pay for that in this pro-development world is anyone’s guess. The Arctic refuge must continue to be preserved as a symbol of America’s natural heritage. It remains a healthy ecosystem supporting wildlife, and native peoples as they adapt to profound climate-related changes. True wilderness holds a spiritual value that can nourish us. That is why the American public enjoys its national parks, monuments and other protected areas. There will always be pro-development forces and those with political agendas who are prepared to dismantle, cripple, gut and destroy our natural heritage for short-term gain, heedless of the long-term cost to us as a civilization. In that effort they forget that everything we want, need and have comes from nature. Congress should stop its headlong rush to open up the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil and gas exploration and extraction. Surely patriotism encompasses the protection of the most pristine and beautiful representations of America. A line must be drawn in the tundra, ensuring that it remains a place where a boot print continues to surprise us.