This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. First: The bipartisan health care deal in the Senate, announced yesterday, is a very good deal. It undoes two of President Trump’s attempts to sabotage the law, by reinstating reimbursement payments to insurers and by encouraging people to sign up for insurance. It also gives states some more flexibility, a longtime conservative priority. Perhaps above all, it’s a sign that some leading Republicans are finally serious about trying to improve the health care system. The deal, John McCain said, “shows that good faith, bipartisan negotiations can achieve consensus on lasting reform.” Democratic-leaning experts were full of praise for it too, saying that, while it didn’t void all of Trump’s mischief, it was major progress. Jacob Leibenluft, a former Obama adviser, called the deal the “first concession” from Republicans that “they will own health care markets in 2018 and 2020.” The biggest caveat: The deal — between Patty Murray, a Washington Democrat, and Lamar Alexander, a Tennessee Republican — is still just a framework. It must pass both houses of Congress and be signed by Trump.  An ugly, and close, campaign. Virginia and New Jersey are the only states to hold their governor elections the year after presidential elections, which turns the two states into gauges of a new president’s popularity. This year in New Jersey, the Democrat — Phil Murphy, an ambassador to Germany under President Obama — is far ahead. But Virginia is another matter, and it offers a warning for Democratic overconfidence outside reliably blue areas. In Virginia, the Democrat — Ralph Northam, the lieutenant governor — has held only a narrow lead in most polls. The Republican — Ed Gillespie, a former chairman of the Republican National Committee — grabbed a 1-point lead in a much-discussed new poll yesterday (although Northam still led in two other polls released the same day). My advice is not to get caught up in any one poll and instead consider the race to be very tight. Its tightness is alarming, because Gillespie has abandoned his calls for an inclusive Republican Party and is running a nasty, ethnocentric campaign. A few of his television ads ludicrously link Northam to the Central American gang MS-13. Beyond those ads, Gillespie likes to issue dark warnings about illegal immigrants. He has also emphasized the need to keep Confederate statues standing. And he has hired a former Trump campaign operative who, as The Washington Post notes, “has warned that the country is on the brink of civil war and that communists are behind the effort to take down Confederate statues.” Gillespie, in short, is running a campaign that mixes Willie Horton-style race-baiting with a Trumpist affinity for the Confederacy — and Gillespie may win. For more on the race, you can read: Dave Wasserman, on Twitter, criticizing the Northam campaign for neglecting rural voters; Harry Enten arguing at FiveThirtyEight that the campaign is a flawed measure of the national mood; and The Times’s Paul Krugman calling Virginia “the most important place on the U.S. political landscape.” In The Times. “I witnessed misogyny at all levels of my six years in the military,” writes Supriya Venkatesan, an Army veteran.