Cork, Ireland — I stood by the door, trying to find the courage to enter the world. This was in Cork, Ireland, in 1998. Outside the rain came down. I could hear the drops pattering against the roof. I wondered what it would be like to feel that rain upon my face. But I couldn’t open the door, not dressed like this. I knew what would happen if I walked outside. I would have to give up on every dream I’d ever had — except one. We loved living in Ireland that year — sending our sons to the Montessori school on the Glasheen Road, teaching American literature at University College Cork, shopping for smoked salmon and brown bread at the English Market down on St. Patrick’s Street. On Wednesdays my wife and I would sit in the corner at the Gables Pub on Douglas Street, listening to the pipes and fiddles and drinking pints of Murphy’s. It was a much better place to raise our sons than America, we thought, especially as the insanity of the Clinton impeachment process unspooled back home. I’d come out to my wife as transgender in the months before we left the States, but I was too afraid to embark on a full transition, which I was fairly certain would ensure violence, loss and scandal. There wasn’t even much of a language back then for discussing the things that dwelled in my heart, certainly not in America, not even among the academics and progressives who constituted most of my friend group. And Ireland, in spite of the love I felt for our lives there, felt even more unsafe. The culture was still dominated by the Catholic Church, and the wake of centuries of history in which queer people were told that to live openly in the world meant damnation. So I spent my days in hiding, standing en femme on one side of a door that I was too afraid to open. That was 19 years ago. Now, in less than half a generation, Ireland has gone from one of the worst places in the world to be gay to being one of the best. In 2015, it became the first country to endorse marriage equality by popular referendum — and at 62 percent in favor, the vote wasn’t even close. That same year, Ireland passed the Gender Recognition Bill, legislation that made it only the fifth country in the world to allow trans people to change their legal gender markers based solely on the truth in their hearts (rather than requiring medical intervention). My wife and I returned to Ireland this month to visit friends in Cork and my cousin Mary John in Ballyferriter, with whom I gazed at the shores of Great Blasket Island from Dunquin harbor and observed the sheepdog trials at a fair in Dingle (which was like the movie “Babe,” except without the pig). Now that I am many years post-transition, no one looked at me twice, although whether this is because the Irish are so accepting or if I have simply taken on the invisibility of a middle-aged woman, I cannot say. One afternoon, I began a talk in the O’Rahilly building at University College Cork by saying, “If you’re someone I haven’t seen since the 1990s, may I just say that you all look different, too.” That night we found ourselves back on our same old stools in the Gables, and I recalled a song entitled “The Wobbling Man,” which the guitarist John Neville used to perform in this same pub, a tune about his alcoholic father. Back in 1998, the song had hit me like a knife in the heart; I, too, had spent much of my life uncertain and afraid, unsteady. There were times when all I did was wobble. Now, as I listened to the old familiar music, I considered the mysterious drivers of change, for people and for nations. On the plane over, I’d read the Irish novelist John Boyne’s brilliant new novel about this very topic. “The Heart’s Invisible Furies” follows the story of one gay man, Cyril Avery, from his birth in the 1940s to the present. Avery’s life charts a familiar course for gay men of a certain generation: a repressed childhood; an early, unspoken crush on a straight friend; coming out, only to find humiliation and rejection and exile; the dark wake of the AIDS crisis; and, finally, finding peace as an older man, back in an Ireland he barely recognizes. Earlier that week, I’d asked Mr. Boyne about the changes in Ireland, and what they might portend for America. “There has been a great change of heart,” he wrote in an email. “Young people have none of the prejudices that previous generations had. They find homophobia as offensive and baffling as, say, racism or anti-Semitism.” It was the scandals in the Irish Catholic church, Mr. Boyne said, that removed it as a force of any moral authority. “We have become a more secular society, less frightened. People are proud of being gay, rather than being terrified of public exposure.” And yet, if there’s been progress for gay men, bisexuals and lesbians, acceptance and understanding of trans people — prepare yourself for a shock — lags behind. “To be honest,” Mr. Boyne wrote me, “I have never met or known a single trans person in Ireland.” Even with legal protections, many trans people in Ireland still stand behind a closed door, afraid of what the world might hold for them on the other side. As I sat there on my stool in the Gables, it occurred to me that, if Ireland and I had both been through transition, that passage was still a work in progress. Sometimes I feel like a gender emigrant, someone who left a place of hardship, who made a dangerous crossing until at last I washed up on the green shores of a new country. As a woman, I have my green card now, and a fierce pride in the country of my naturalization. But once in a while, perhaps, you might hear in my voice the far-off accent of the country of my birth. I drank my pint and watched the bows of fiddles waving through the air. John Neville, my old friend, threw back his head and sang: “I laughed unknowingly as a boy/The Wobbling Man was like a toy./You’d wind him up and let him go,/and watch him wobble to and fro.” My wife took my hand. We will have been married for 30 years in 2018 — 12 as husband and wife; 18 as wife and wife. “It’s closing time,” she said. We walked outside together. It was a soft night in Cork, and showers were passing through. I looked toward the sky, and felt the rain upon my face.