With recent powerful hurricanes having battered Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and other Caribbean islands and the West still coping with widely destructive wildfires, the need for action on climate change has never been more obvious. It’s going to take a strenuous, persistent effort at all levels, including international cooperation; federal, state and local action, and private-sector commitments and follow-through. Leaders in the auto industry get this, if their public comments are any indication. This month, Mary Barra, the chief executive, of General Motors, announced her company’s plans to move toward a zero-emissions future with new electric vehicle options. In a letter accompanying the company’s 2016-17 sustainability report, Jim Hackett, the chief executive of Ford, and William Ford, the automaker’s executive chairman, declared their company was “absolutely committed” to reducing emissions and improving fuel efficiency. In an increasingly climate-conscious global market, these industry leaders assure us they’re part of the solution. And they need to be: The transportation sector is now the largest emitter of carbon dioxide in the United States. But the efforts of the auto industry’s lobbyists in Washington tell a different story. They are trying to undermine one of the country’s most successful policies to fight global warming: the fuel economy and greenhouse gas emission standards that are designed to roughly double the miles per gallon of our passenger car fleet by 2025. G.M., Ford and other automakers agreed to these standards in 2010, but now industry allies in Congress have introduced legislation that would weaken them, and the Trump administration has “reopened” these standards for review, an ominous first step to potentially gutting them and stalling progress on cleaner cars and a healthier environment. As a former administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and a former commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection, we know firsthand how important and challenging it is to build good public policies — and why it’s shortsighted to roll back a policy that’s working. According to an analysis by the Union of Concerned Scientists, since the standards went into effect in 2010, they have saved drivers more than $47 billion on fuel. If we stay the course, the benefits are enormous: By 2030, we’ll cut our oil use by 2.4 million barrels every day, and drivers will save $6,000 over the life of their vehicles. These standards will also reduce global warming emissions by 280 million metric tons and are projected to create 650,000 jobs. Why do more efficient cars create jobs? Because consumers plow their savings at the gas pump back into the economy, creating jobs in sectors like retail and construction that generate far more jobs per consumer dollar spent than the oil extraction industry. And in an increasingly globalized and increasingly climate-conscious world, cleaner cars will keep America’s auto manufacturers competitive. Federal agencies spent years conducting a rigorous “midterm” review that included research by experts at E.P.A. labs, technical analysis from experts across academia and input from a wide range of stakeholders, including automakers. This in-depth analysis shows, conclusively, that automakers can improve efficiency — and, thanks to technological innovation, they can do it at lower cost than federal agencies anticipated when these standards were developed. That’s why the E.P.A. determined in January that the standards should stay in place — they’re technically and economically feasible. Yet Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. administrator, has withdrawn that determination and seems ready to ignore years of scientific and economic analyses that underpinned the agency’s decision, and auto industry trade groups are taking advantage of this opening. They are claiming that the standards are too hard to reach because consumers are more interested in larger vehicles like S.U.V.s and pickup trucks — but that’s at odds with how the standards actually work. Because the standards are based on the size of the vehicle, rather than an overall, across-the-board reduction target, they have the flexibility to adapt to changing consumer preferences. Whether drivers want a subcompact or an S.U.V., the standards make sure this year’s model runs cleaner and gets better mileage than last year’s. Though we can’t count on today’s leaders at federal agencies to do the right thing and follow the facts, we can insist that automakers act responsibly, as they have before. Starting in 2010, automakers worked together with federal agencies, the State of California and public interest groups to design these standards. So far, the automakers have kept their end of the bargain by building cleaner, more efficient cars across the board, from S.U.V.s to compacts, benefiting all consumers. They’ve also invested billions in electric cars. Consumers today enjoy many new options for high performance, longer-range electric vehicles, even as prices drop. Notably, automakers are benefiting from this innovation with record sales and job growth that contribute significantly to the country’s economic well-being. But now is a moment of truth. The standards that have helped drive this progress are under threat, putting the country on a course to higher carbon dioxide emissions. If auto executives want their statements about climate change and their positive vision for the future to be taken seriously, they must ensure that their agents do not block this progress behind closed doors in Washington. Instead, they need to state clearly and publicly that they support these standards, oppose weakening them, and can and will build the cleaner, more efficient cars that fully comply with the standards. This is how to align aspiration with action.