The white nationalist Richard Spencer is scheduled to give a speech at the University of Florida on Thursday. It is to be his first campus event since he and other members of the alt-right marched through the University of Virginia in August, wielding torches and shouting Nazi-era slogans. Anyone who expected Mr. Spencer to skulk away after the violence in Charlottesville misread him. Mr. Spencer is arguably the most visible proponent of his fringe views, and he earned that distinction with a hustler’s knack for self-promotion. As long as he has the nation’s attention, Mr. Spencer thinks he is winning. Several public universities recently canceled planned appearances by Mr. Spencer, garnering him even more headlines. The First Amendment rightfully prohibits government entities, including public universities, from blocking a speaker solely because of his viewpoint, no matter how hateful some or even all may find it. So public institutions that bar Mr. Spencer may lose to him in court, too. Like it or not, Mr. Spencer will most likely keep his campus outrage act on the road. It’s a shrewd and effective publicity strategy. This raises a vexing and complicated question for students and faculty members opposed to his views. How can they constructively respond to his provocations without fueling his rise or abandoning the principles of free expression? Campus activists should remember: Mr. Spencer is counting on you to try to silence him. Turning him into a “free speech martyr” makes his message more sympathetic to those inclined to support him. After all, they’ll reason, if Mr. Spencer isn’t telling the truth, then why are people so bent on shutting him up? Students and faculty members can deny his combustible words the oxygen they need by simply ignoring them. For plenty of young people, it will be difficult to think of Mr. Spencer’s speech going unchallenged, but provoking angry protest is a central aim of these events. Ask any reporter: If Richard Spencer holds a rally, and nobody attends, does it make the news? Mr. Spencer is dependent on public outrage to bolster his stature in the eyes of his followers and the news media. But if ignoring Mr. Spencer’s message strikes you as a dereliction of moral duty or otherwise unacceptable, then remember that you possess your own First Amendment freedom to speak your mind. You have the right to peacefully protest speech and speakers you abhor, and the right to join together with others to celebrate and amplify countervailing viewpoints. Hold a counter-rally outside of where Mr. Spencer is speaking to protest him and his ilk. You may be relieved and reassured to see who stands with you — as the poet Allen Ginsberg wrote, “Candor ends paranoia” — and the numbers you draw to your cause might well send its own message. Counter-protesting may prove cathartic, an empowering reminder of your own agency and the dynamic potential of political organizing. In our liberal democracy, the old civil libertarian saw — “answer speech with more speech” — is still good advice. Remember that humor is a powerful tool, even (perhaps especially) when you are confronting issues of grave importance. A cutting joke can deflate bombast, educate the public, and convince the unaware or unconvinced to stand with you. My boss, a comic book nerd, is particularly fond of the counterprotests in response to the Westboro Baptist Church demonstration at Comic-Con. While Westboro Baptist members displayed messages like “God Hates You,” comic book fans carried signs saying, “All Glory to the HypnoToad,” and “Magnets: How the #?*! Do They Work?” Humorous counter-protests undercut the gravitas that groups like the Westboro Baptist Church and speakers like Mr. Spencer are trying to accrue. It may also be useful to hear Mr. Spencer in his own words, so as to more effectively combat his ideas. Track his factual assertions and refute them. Catalog his statements and expose them. Ask questions. To paraphrase Justice Louis Brandeis, shining sunlight upon Mr. Spencer’s beliefs may prove to be powerful disinfectant. Polling shows that his ideas are unpopular; remind people why. As the gay rights activist Jonathan Rauch said of one gay rights opponent, “The more he talks, and the more we talk, the better we sound.” Finally, avoid violence. Nothing would make a provocateur like Mr. Spencer happier than a violent attempt at shutting him down. Violence generates still more attention for his cause, while sacrificing the moral clarity of peaceful protest. It frightens away potential supporters, alienates the public and allows opponents to claim that “both sides” are at fault. Most dangerously, engaging in violence will only guarantee more in return, whether from one’s political adversaries or the state. As the research of Erica Chenoweth, a political scientist at the University of Denver, demonstrates, engaging in violence has historically empowered fascists, who are experts in its use. Richard Spencer will speak at the University of Florida on Thursday. His opponents should, too.