The rising stock market has recently become one of President Trump’s favorite tropes. “Stock market has increased by 5.2 trillion dollars since the election on November 8th, a 25 percent increase,” he tweeted on Oct. 16. Yet, for most Americans, the larger issue is that this upturn is seldom felt. An equity inequity has driven America’s wealth gap to historic levels. Eighty percent of Americans own only 8 percent of the nation’s stocks. One-third of Americans have saved nothing for their retirement. The scale of the challenge calls for ambitious initiatives to put asset-building power and retirement security into the hands of all Americans. Instead, Republicans and Democrats have played to type, even when all evidence points to the failure of both the traditional left and the traditional right solutions. If anyone wonders why Americans have lost faith in government, the sad saga of the myRA program tells the tale. The recent announcement by Treasury Department that it will shut down this Obama-era program marked the end of a story that began, as is so often the case in government, with the best intentions. The Obama administration announced the myRA program in January 2014 as a no-fee, no-minimum-investment version of a Roth individual retirement account to address the real challenges of Americans without access to an employer-based 401(k) retirement program. The myRA sounded like a good idea. Qualifying workers could put up to $5,500 a year into the account — or $6,500 if they were over 50 years old — which would be invested in government bonds, guaranteeing a modest but dependable return. Yet, despite the good motives, myRA was a tiny tinker when large-scale change is demanded, a government-run program instead of a market-based response, and a dramatic waste of taxpayer dollars. Because it was managed by the Treasury Department and only invested in government securities, the private sector was kept off the playing field. As opposed to individual retirement accounts, there was no flood of financial industry TV commercials trying to persuade Americans to open a myRA. Running the entire program through the federal government, the Obama administration spent $70 million and only got 20,000 Americans to invest — an outrageous cost of $3,500 for each new account. Of that, $10 million went to a single bank — Comerica — to act as custodian for this small number of simple, non-trading accounts. Inheriting this debacle, the Trump administration could have reformed this program. Or it could have replaced it. Instead, it repealed it without anything to take its place. The cabinet is stacked with millionaires while Americans sitting on the sidelines of asset building are being told they are on their own. When it comes to the crisis of retirement security and asset building, the financial industry has been either callous in a focus on serving only the very wealthy or rapacious as it saddles everyday investors with high fees. The federal government has oscillated between incompetence and indifference; between being softheaded or hardhearted. And the plight of the hundreds of millions of Americans continues as they watch inequality grow and their financial security wither. It was not always this way. Just 10 years ago, a bipartisan collection of senators — Jeff Sessions, Jim DeMint and Rick Santorum on one side of the aisle and Joe Biden, Hillary Clinton and Chuck Schumer on the other — came together to support legislation to give newborn Americans a $500 “baby bond” that would grow over time. Amid the tumult of the Great Recession, this idea of a “nest egg in every crib” went the way of the Republicans’ promise in 1928 to put “a chicken in every pot” during the Great Depression. Perhaps in a Washington struggling to find a way to make tax reform bold and bipartisan, this idea may yet have new lease on life. Whether it is policy or private sector innovation, an alternative to the status quo in Washington and on Wall Street is the only way to bridge the growing gap between a surging investing class and vast majority of Americans falling ever further behind.