In early September, a 17-year-old girl from Central America was apprehended trying cross the border between the United States and Mexico. After being taken to a shelter for unaccompanied minors in South Texas to await immigration proceedings, she learned she was pregnant. The girl, referred to as Jane Doe in court filings, was adamant that she wanted an abortion. Because of Texas’ parental consent law, she needed to go to court to get a judge’s permission, which she did with help from Jane’s Due Process, a nonprofit legal organization that provides representation to pregnant minors in Texas. Jane’s Due Process collected money for the procedure from local abortion funds. It was scheduled for Sept. 28, near the end of Doe’s first trimester. Then the Trump administration stepped in. Repaying his loyal supporters on the religious right, Donald Trump has given federal appointments to a number of anti-abortion activists. They’ve been working quietly to dismantle access to reproductive health care while the country is distracted by the president’s pyrotechnic outrages. For almost a month, some of these Trump appointees have been waging a crusade to force the young woman, whose future in this country is extremely uncertain, to carry her pregnancy to term. Their standoff shows us the real-world consequences of this administration’s radical disregard for women’s autonomy. E. Scott Lloyd had little professional experience with refugees when Trump put him in charge of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, which falls under the Department of Health and Human Services, in March. He did, however, have a long history of anti-abortion activism, and had written several articles decrying birth control. (One piece was subtitled, “Why You Can’t Be Pro-Life and Pro-Contraception.”) At O.R.R., which operates the shelters that house unaccompanied minors like Doe, Lloyd was given authority over uniquely vulnerable pregnant girls. Experts estimate that around 60 percent of female migrants have been raped. Brigitte Amiri of the A.C.L.U., the lead attorney on Doe’s case, told me that at any one time, several hundred to a thousand pregnant unaccompanied minors are in U.S. custody. Under Lloyd, O.R.R. has banned shelters from helping any of these girls get abortions, instead mandating that they receive “life-affirming options counseling.” Before his appointment, Lloyd made it clear that he believes the government has the right to exercise veto power over women’s reproductive decisions. Writing in The National Catholic Register in 2009, he proposed that women receiving Title X family planning assistance forfeit the option to end their pregnancies. “I suggest that the American people make a deal with women: So long as you are using the condom, pill or patch I am providing with my money, you are going to promise not to have an abortion if the contraception fails, which it often does,” he wrote. “You will put the baby up for adoption if you don’t want him or her. We can do this by having the woman sign a pledge.” At O.R.R., Lloyd quickly availed himself of the opportunity to exercise power over young women’s pregnancy decisions. According to a suit the A.C.L.U. filed on Doe’s behalf, Lloyd “has personally contacted one or more unaccompanied immigrant minors who was pregnant and seeking abortion, and discussed with them their decision to have an abortion.” In a March case just before Lloyd officially took over at O.R.R., the suit says, the office intervened in the middle of a girl’s medication abortion, which had been authorized by a judge. The girl had taken a dose of mifepristone, the first part of the medical abortion regimen, to be followed within 48 hours by a dose of misoprostol. But before she could take the second medication, O.R.R.’s acting director at the time, Ken Tota, ordered her to be taken to an emergency room to see if the pregnancy could be saved. (She was eventually allowed to complete the abortion.) Evidently, word went down to the shelter where Doe was housed that, despite the judicial authorization she’d received, the staff was not to cooperate with her abortion. On Sept. 23, her lawyers say, she was taken to an anti-abortion crisis pregnancy center, where she was forced to view an ultrasound. One of her lawyers told me that Lloyd had the shelter call Doe’s mother in her home country to tell her about the pregnancy, even though she said her mother was physically abusive. Throughout all this, Rochelle Garza, Doe’s court-appointed guardian, told me that the girl remained “unwavering in her decision to terminate the pregnancy despite the emotional abuse that she is enduring.” A legal battle ensued. While it was fought, Garza said, the girl was placed under constant one-on-one supervision, and barred from all physical activity. When the shelter’s residents were taken on an outing to the park, Doe was made to sit on a bench while the other kids played. “They’re holding her hostage,” Amiri told me. “This is the most insane case I’ve ever worked on in my career.” (The Administration for Children and Families at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which oversees O.R.R., sent me a statement about ensuring “our country does not become an open sanctuary for taxpayer-supported abortions by minors crossing the border illegally.” It did not respond to specific questions.) On Oct. 18, a federal judge issued a temporary restraining order requiring the administration to stop blocking Doe’s abortion. Now a second-trimester procedure, it was scheduled for Oct. 20. But the Trump administration made a successful appeal, so instead there will be another round of arguments on that day. It’s not yet clear when or even if Doe will finally be able to terminate her pregnancy. Abortion in Texas is mostly illegal after 20 weeks. Amiri seems genuinely shocked by the administration’s intransigence. “The amount of opposition to this young women’s abortion is just astounding,” she said. “And they continue to double down over and over again. Every step of the way, I think at some point justice will prevail and there will be some sense from the federal government that the rule of law prohibits what they’re doing, but they keep taking it to the next level.” When it comes to controlling women’s bodies, the only limit is what they can get away with.