This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. 43. George W. Bush gave a brave speech yesterday, calling out the rise of bigotry, nativism and “outright fabrication.” It was a sweeping rejection of President Trump, without ever saying his name. “The American spirit does not say, ‘We shall manage,’ or ‘We shall make the best of it,’” Bush concluded. “It says, ‘We shall overcome.” I recommend watching or reading the full speech. Those fabrications. The blizzard of lies — to quote a Dave Frishberg song — can be overwhelming. The president is willing to lie whenever it suits his purpose. Summoning outrage about each new lie is exhausting, and I understand why people sometimes tune out. But there is at least one category of lies that demands attention. A special federal prosecutor and Congress are both investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. The investigation is as serious as they come. It is trying to uncover the truth about a hostile foreign country’s attempts to undermine American interests and national security. And the president of the United States — whose campaign is a subject of that investigation — keeps lying about it. He has denounced his intelligence agencies’ findings as a “hoax” and the multiple investigations as a “witch hunt.” His White House has lied about his campaign’s contacts with Russians. He reportedly helped his elder son write an untruthful statement about a meeting with a Russian lawyer. And then the president’s lawyer lied about the drafting of the statement. Trump added to the blizzard yesterday, with a reckless tweet suggesting that the F.B.I., the Democrats and Russia colluded to compile a dossier with damaging (and speculative) information about his Russia ties. Take a moment to reflect on this: As Rick Wilson, a Republican strategist, put it, “the president of United States just accused the FBI of engaging in treason with Russia.” The accusation reminded me of a Lawfare piece written by Bob Bauer, a former White House counsel to Barack Obama. The piece is called, “A President’s Words Matter.” It explains the dire implications of a president who “deliberately and continuously misrepresents to the public the grounds for an ongoing criminal investigation.” Trump’s repeated lies may — intentionally or not — encourage witnesses to lie to investigators, Bauer notes. They may also make Trump vulnerable to an impeachment charge. One of the articles of impeachment against Richard Nixon alleged “false or misleading public statements for the purpose of deceiving the people of the United States.” Gold Star. The Trump lie that received the most attention yesterday wasn’t about Russia, of course. It was about his phone call with Myeshia Johnson, the widow of Army Sgt. La David T. Johnson, a Special Forces soldier killed in action this month. On the call, Trump told her that her late husband “knew what he signed up for.” How is the Trump-friendly media covering the story? Here is a selection: Sean Hannity, on his television show: “The president reportedly also said, ‘he knew what he signed up for, but when it happens, it really hurts. It still hurts.’ The media is leaving that part out in most instances.... Let’s assume that maybe the president was slightly inarticulate in his offer of condolences to the sergeant’s widow. Let’s assume for just a second. Isn’t what the president’s saying here that anybody who signs up for the military, they know the danger, they’re courageous, they’re heroes?” Michelle Malkin, a conservative commentator, tweeted: “This is hearsay, uncorroborated, and out of context pot-stirring by Dem partisans riding the impeachment bandwagon — and recycled by lemmings masquerading as journalists. #fakenews” The Federalist has focused on the White House’s criticism of “a congresswomen who politicized the death of a Gold Star soldier” and, more broadly, decried politicians — especially Democrats — for politicizing military service. In The Times, the actress Lupita Nyong’o describes her own experiences of being targeted by Harvey Weinstein. “I speak up to make certain that this is not the kind of misconduct that deserves a second chance. I speak up to contribute to the end of the conspiracy of silence.”