In recent weeks, wildfires have devastated parts of Northern California, killing at least 42 people, incinerating entire neighborhoods and sending thousands fleeing. I live on the east side of the San Francisco Bay, and for a few days last week, as gray ash rained down on my doorstep, and the sun was tinged an apocalyptic red, air quality was deemed worse than Beijing’s. The fires are now better contained, but this week large swaths of Northern California contended with enough smoke that, for a few days, children were kept inside during recess. The best way to protect oneself from pollution like this is obviously to avoid inhaling it at all. But if avoidance is impossible, there may be another option: Eat a more healthful diet. A small but growing body of research suggests that Mediterranean-like fare — lots of fruits, vegetables, fish, whole grains and nuts — may protect the body against the ravages of air pollution. When considering air pollution, scientists fret most about fine particles — those smaller than 2.5 microns, or about one-thirtieth the width of a human hair. Tiny particles penetrate deep into the lung, and may enter the bloodstream, causing the sort of low-grade inflammation and oxidative stress thought to worsen, and even to drive, many chronic diseases. Asthma isn’t the only concern. Exposure to bad air has been linked with an increased risk of heart disease, cancer and dementia. It may even elevate the risk of diabetes. We already know that a good diet protects against these same diseases. What some now contend is that diet can also blunt the effects of air pollution not by shielding the body directly like a mask, but by helping our bodies to cope with the insult. In one small study, scientists at the Environmental Protection Agency gave either fish oil or olive oil daily to 29 middle-age people for a month, and then exposed them for two hours to particulate pollution. As a rule, the less one’s heart rate varies, the more likely one is to suffer a heart attack. Those who took olive oil saw their heart rate variability decline when inhaling the pollution; levels of unhealthy LDL cholesterol and triglycerides also went up — two risk factors for heart disease. But those who took fish oil didn’t see the same response. The supplement seemed to attenuate their reaction to the particles entering their bodies, making the pollution less dangerous. How this works isn’t completely clear. The anti-inflammatory effects of omega-3 fatty acids, which abound in fish oils, may be partly responsible, as well as those acids’ direct effects on the nervous system. But if you prefer not to contribute to the depletion of the world’s fisheries, or simply can’t stand fish, various plant compounds appear to have a similar protective effect. In a recent study, scientists at the University of California, Los Angeles, showed that drinking broccoli sprout extract for four days in juice could blunt the amount of inflammation that occurred in people’s noses after exposure to diesel exhaust pollution. Another study, led by Columbia University scientists, made a similar finding, but with vitamins. B vitamins could prevent particulate pollution from affecting heart rate variability and provoking inflammation. Pollution can activate normally quiet “bad genes,” Jia Zhong, a Columbia University epidemiologist and the lead author on the study, told me. B vitamins may keep those potentially dangerous genes silent. Yet another study, conducted in Mexico, indicated that vitamins C and E could, when given to asthmatic children, prevent ozone from diminishing lung function. So should we all load up on supplements? Here, caution is warranted. First, the supplement industry isn’t regulated. Quality control is questionable. But more important, excess supplementation may cause a different kind of harm. A number of studies have shown that people who supplement with certain vitamins, including E and the B’s, have a greater risk of cancer than those who don’t. In one study, voles given vitamins E and C had shorter life spans than their untreated brethren. There is a deeper lesson here about the dangers of trying to reduce imagined healthy behavior to just a few simple components. Observational studies have long suggested that people who eat lots of fruit, vegetables and whole grains have a lower risk of various chronic and degenerative diseases. So years ago, some researchers proposed that the dietary antioxidants, including vitamins, in these foods could explain these patterns. These antioxidants theoretically protect us from damage by pro-oxidants. But that explanation may be incorrect. In recent years, a more nuanced idea has emerged. Yes, vitamins are important to our health. But we may actually require some amount of the supposedly dangerous “pro-oxidant” signals to stay healthy. If that signal is completely quashed, we may end up weaker, not stronger. Thus, in one highly cited German study, people given the antioxidant vitamins C and E after a workout — exercise causes a short-term proliferation of pro-oxidants — failed to grow stronger. By neutralizing the free radicals, the thinking goes, antioxidants canceled the benefits of exercise, preventing strengthening. Today some people think that many biologically active substances in plant-rich diets aren’t necessarily improving health by acting as antioxidants at all. Instead, these substances seem to activate our own, intrinsic protective mechanisms. It’s this response that makes us more resilient to subsequent insult, and better able to cope. The compound sulforaphane, found in things like broccoli, brussels sprouts and other cruciferous vegetables, is a case in point. Rather than directly neutralizing pro-oxidants, it prompts our bodies to boost defenses and detoxify itself. In a recent study led by scientists at Johns Hopkins, 148 Chinese residents of a polluted region near the Yangtze River delta drank a broccoli sprout drink for 12 weeks. Excretion of toxic compounds, as measured in urine, went up compared with a group that drank placebo. Sulforaphane wasn’t shielding their bodies directly but rather increasing their own detox capacity and helping them to expel pollutants. Should we all drink broccoli-sprout juice? The study’s senior author, Thomas Kensler, a professor of pharmacology and chemical biology at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, doesn’t recommend it. Too much remains unknown, he says. Sulforaphane isn’t the only beneficial plant chemical of this sort out there; plants produce hundreds of such substances. He recommends you “eat a good diet,” which includes lots of raw or lightly cooked cruciferous vegetables, and fruits and vegetables in general. We can’t be certain it will help with pollution, but it most likely won’t hurt.