On Wednesday, 2012 Olympic gold medalist McKayla Maroney became the latest and most decorated American gymnast to speak out about being sexually abused by Larry Nassar, who served as the USA Gymnastics women’s team doctor for two decades. “It started when I was 13 years old, at one of my first National Team training camps, in Texas, and it didn’t end until I left the sport,” Maroney, now 21, wrote of Nassar on Twitter. “Is it possible for survivors to speak out, without putting careers, and dreams in jeopardy?” Maroney asked. There is increasingly good reason to think that the answer is yes. Nassar is facing 33 charges of criminal sexual conduct in Michigan and pleaded guilty to federal pornography charges in July; he is expected to spend decades in prison. Last August, the floodgates opened after Rachael Denhollander, who says she was abused by the doctor as a 15-year-old gymnast in Michigan, filed a criminal complaint for sexual assault against Nassar, who was also a faculty member at Michigan State University and team physician at a local club. Now some 140 individuals have accused him of sexual abuse. After revelations of Nassar’s widespread abuse over several decades, Aly Raisman, a 2012 and 2016 Olympian, criticized USA Gymnastics this summer for its handling of Nassar and for not doing enough to help his victims. She called out the fact that Steve Penny, the former USA Gymnastics president who resigned in March amid criticism that the organization did not act quickly enough, reportedly received a $1 million severance package. Raisman, who has not claimed that she herself suffered abuse, wants to compete in the Tokyo Olympics in 2020. Publicly criticizing your sport’s own governing body when you hope to again compete at the highest level is a gutsy move — and a sign of a significant cultural shift in the sport. Less than a decade ago, an Olympic gold medal gymnast who blew the whistle was iced out of the sport. In 2008, Dominique Moceanu — a wunderkind who won the gold at 14 years old at the 1996 Atlanta Games — claimed that her coaches, Martha and Bela Karolyi, had physically and emotionally abused her. “I never, ever objected to hard work,” she told The Los Angeles Times. “What I objected to was Martha grabbing me by the neck, shoving my face into the phone and telling me to call my parents when I hurt my neck in practice.” Moceanu had already retired in 2008. But criticizing arguably the most famous coaches on the planet — the Karolyis had led Nadia Comaneci and Mary Lou Retton to Olympic gold — had a high price. “In a lot of ways I was a sacrificial lamb and was blacklisted,” Moceanu told me on Wednesday. “I lost friendships. I got a lot of private support, but no one was willing to come forward publicly because they didn’t want to be blacklisted.” She says she lost many of the perks available to other former Olympians, such as being invited for appearances to promote the sport and paid opportunities to sign autographs. But Moceanu says that things have changed. “The path has been paved,” she said. “Now they will never take it out on Aly.” There is still much more that can be done to protect the athletes. In March, after appearing on “60 Minutes” to discuss abuse by Nassar, former national team members Jamie Dantzscher and Jessica Howard testified before Congress about their experiences along with Moceanu, and Senator Dianne Feinstein of California introduced legislation to crack down on abuse by, among other things, requiring mandatory reporting of sex abuse allegations by athletes to law enforcement or a child-welfare agency. Among the factors Feinstein considered was that it took USA Gymnastics five weeks to report Nassar to the F.B.I. — and did so only after conducting its own investigation. The House passed a companion bill in May; Feinstein’s bill awaits action by the full Senate. In June, USA Gymnastics adopted all of the recommendations put forward in a report it commissioned from a former prosecutor, which includes reporting abuse immediately to legal authorities. But Jessica Howard doesn’t think that goes far enough. She believes that the USA Gymnastics board should be forced to resign, particularly the executive committee. “Although to some extent members were kept in the dark by USAG officials,” she says, “the board has allowed a system to exist that victimizes athletes.” Howard says the new board should dismantle the culture of abuse and remove any penalty for gymnasts who speak up — a fear she felt when competing. “As an athlete, speaking out about abuse could be at best ignored, and at worst could cost you your dreams,” she said in an email to me on Thursday. In her post on Wednesday, Maroney made her own recommendations, including accountability for the people, institutions and organizations in positions of power. For her part, Raisman has suggested a better use for the $1 million awarded to Steve Penny: offering to pay for therapy for all the gymnasts who have come forward.