In the 1990s, San Francisco removed all of the benches from Civic Center Plaza. In 2001, all remaining seating in nearby United Nations Plaza was removed in the middle of the night. Over the years, public seating has been removed from virtually the entire city. While this anti-homelessness strategy has given way a little with the emergence of the city’s many parklets, it’s still in full effect. Decades after the full-scale seating removal in Civic Center Plaza, there is still nary a bench. Unfortunately, you cannot say the same for the number of unhoused who congregate there. Civic Center Plaza, like so many urban plazas everywhere, gives the appearance of public space while simultaneously restricting access to it. As the urban anthropologist William H. Whyte said, “This might not strike the reader as an intellectual bombshell,” but “people tend to sit where there are places to sit.” Yet keeping people away from those places — or failing to offer any place to sit at all — has become a defining feature of too much city and town planning. Is it really the goal to make our cities feel unwelcoming? Do we really want to criminalize sitting? We already have. The absence of seating is just one way to exclude people from places. A street hockey rink in a white community was built on the ashes of basketball courts that had been popular with persons of color from a neighboring town. Or benches are removed, sprinklers installed and sit-lie laws passed to keep certain people away — while policies that would help educate, house or care for those people are inadequate and underfunded. These tactics fail to get at any root causes of these problems, and yet they’re proliferating. “The Arsenal of Exclusion and Inclusion,” a forthcoming book by Tobias Armborst, Daniel D’Oca and Georgeen Theodore, who lead the architecture, planning and research collective Interboro, refers to such things — which include cul-de-sacs, cold water, “No Loitering” signs, the Fair Housing Act — as “weapons.” They are the policies, practices and physical artifacts used by planners, policy makers, developers, real estate brokers, community activists and others to draw, redraw or erase the lines that divide us. “It really is a war out there,” says Ms. Theodore, who explains that the use of the term “weapons” is meant to show that it’s a fight — while also highlighting the agency of the people who can wield these weapons for good or bad. Once you first notice the sort of weapons “Arsenal” discusses, you can’t stop noticing them: those seemingly decorative “anti-homeless” spikes installed on the exterior ledges of buildings, benches with metal armrests set close together to prevent anyone from lying down, even classical music piped through outdoor speakers to deter teenagers from congregating in front of convenience stores. None of this is illegal, and collectively we seem resigned to it. These are subtle gestures, but they’re becoming ubiquitous. (There are many far less subtle examples, such as the “pee paint” deployed in cities like Hamburg and San Francisco, which makes urine bounce back at the offending urinator.) Ms. Theodore recounted that Heinrich Zille, the early-20th-century illustrator and chronicler of life in the Berlin tenements, once said something like “You can kill a man with an apartment as with an ax.” The same could probably be said about a map: 1930s residential security maps (through redlining) cut off entire neighborhoods from investment, rigging the game against those neighborhoods’ mainly nonwhite residents. The fact that life expectancy in Baltimore’s poorest ZIP codes is about 20 years shorter than in the richest ones, Ms. Theodore says, “is certainly not the result of ‘bad choices’ on the part of poorer residents, but is the direct result of earlier planning decisions. So, yes, space matters, and sometimes it is being used as a weapon.” Tools of exclusion aren’t new, but we are gaining a much more comprehensive understanding of the innumerable ways they are being deployed. Richard Rothstein’s recent book “The Color of Law: A Forgotten History of How Our Government Segregated America,” for example, shows how policy pursued by the federal government after World War II was designed to subsidize the development of suburbs on a condition that the homes be sold only to white families and that deeds prohibited resale to African-Americans. Mr. Rothstein’s writing is measured, but everything he relates is chilling in its deliberateness and intent. Page after page reveals the extent to which segregation was implemented, resulting in the divisiveness that so characterizes us today. “The Arsenal” goes less deep but broader, addressing private, public and shared spaces. A series of essays by Interboro and in-the-trenches contributors show that the ways we plan and design our built environment, and allow (or forbid) access to it, have a serious impact on everything from economic mobility to public health. One entry describes the “Ugly Law,” a city ordinance created in Portland, Ore., in 1881. In 1916 a woman making a living selling newspapers on the street who was told by authorities that she was “too terrible a sight for the children to see” and given money to get out of town. A flurry of such laws were passed throughout the United States between 1867 and World War I, targeting those we would now refer to as disabled. More recently, “blood relative ordinances” have been proposed by white communities, requiring tenants to be related by blood to their landlords, as well as “kinship ordinances” that require prospective tenants to secure a letter of recommendation from a current resident. We see variants of this everywhere these days. This past summer’s tourist crackdowns in Italy, for instance, were understandably intended to stem the tide of selfie sticks and Trevi-fountain-wading but also placed restrictions on so-called indecorous behavior, obstructing access to city centers to anyone officialdom deems undesirable. Another entry in the book addresses the bike lane, which today is one of the most volatile flash points of civic life. Many believe bike lanes make a city more accessible, while others see them as a tool of gentrification. Not all of these tools are exclusionary. In New York, Ms. Theodore says, “they also seem to stoke people’s imagination when it comes to devising new inclusionary tools to make the city livable for a greater number of people.” She also cites limited-equity co-ops, naturally occurring retirement communities (NORCs) and rent control as “accidental” inclusionary tools, things that weren’t designed to be inclusionary but end up making the city accessible for a greater number of people. The flat transit fare is another example. “All subway trips, whether you’re traveling three blocks or 38 miles, cost the same set price of $2.75,” Ms. Theodore notes. So what can we do as citizens? To begin, as the Interboro team suggests, start noticing these barriers to inclusion. Make small gestures that can have a big impact. Involving communities in the process is a clear way to err on the side of inclusion. Take your cue from a great group like Build a Better Block and get your neighbors out in the streets: Place exhibits and pop-up stores in vacant storefronts, host a street party. Actions like these can even help to change restrictive zoning: When Build a Better Block’s Jason Roberts first closed off a street for a festival, he and his team placed signs everywhere saying that their interventions were in violation of existing codes. They then did a walk-through with City Council members, who, recognizing the absurdity of many of the regulations, later worked to change them. Take action to make others feel welcome. Support (with votes, dollars, your presence at community meetings) practices designed to build more accessible towns, cities and suburbs — things like community land trusts, inclusionary zoning and projects such as the recently opened Exchange House, a vacant house in Akron, Ohio, that was converted into a cultural hostel and gathering space. It provides temporary housing plus health and social services and programs for the neighborhood’s immigrant community. Another great effort? On Friday, the Gehl Institute announced the Public Life Data Protocol, which aims to develop a common language around public spaces so that they can be better designed for those who use them. (They’re working with San Francisco’s planning department to reimagine the Civic Center Plaza, by the way. Seating will be part of the plan, along with data the protocol collects — from all users of the plaza.) Inequality is escalating, and these spaces make that reality visible. It doesn’t have to continue this way. Everyone has the potential to act and, in a way, to be the designer of his or her environment. This is a call to action.