I apologize for my beard. Not only because it is terrible — thin, patchy and asymmetrical — but also because it is inexplicable. Many people have asked me why I grew it, and most of those people are my wife, and to them and to her I say: I don’t know. I’m sorry. Before my beard I had just a mustache, and that was not mysterious at all. In fact, I have grown two mustaches in my life, for equally banal, emotionally transparent reasons. I grew the first one in 1999, in the yearlong run-up to my marriage to the woman who is still my wife. I had ever only been clean-shaven before then (aside from an obligatory early-’90s flirtation with a soul patch in college), and I suppose now I was testing her. A few very good-looking people I know turn mean when they drink, mocking and abusing the people who care about them. They make themselves ugly to see if people will still love them that way. I think my mustache — thick and dark and unwanted in the middle of my round pale face — served the same function: to be repulsive on purpose. I looked like a bushy 19th-century president who also happened to be a baby. Luckily, my fiancée, whom I have known since high school and who had already seen me through various thicks and thins, did not take the bait. She did not confirm my fear that I was an unlovable fraud and did not decline to marry President Chester A. Baby. So I shaved off my mustache the morning after my bachelor weekend in a dilapidated mansion in Atlantic City that I had rented with a group of friends. I cannot remember whether this was my decision or her command. Maintaining such fogginess about free will is, I think, a secret to a lasting marriage. And ours has lasted. I grew my second mustache in 2011 when I turned 40. By that time we had two children, and I grew it for the same reason all of your weird dads grew theirs: It is an evolutionary signal that announces I am done. A visual warning to the mating population of earth that communicates: No, thank you. I have procreated. My DNA is out in the world, and so I no longer deserve physical affection. Instead, it is time for me to turn away from sex and toward new pursuits, the classic weird dad hobbies such as puns, learning trivia about bridges and wars, and dreaming about societal collapse and global apocalypse. Here is a secret: All middle-aged dads dream about the end of the world as we know it. It is a comfort to them. For some, the fantasy is blunt, vengeful and aspirational. The zombie epidemic is a very popular apocalypse scenario among middle-aged men for a very simple reason: When chaos consumes civilization, you can start over. You get to be young again. The apocalypse I dreamed of was different, and presented a different consolation. I dreamed of the end of everything. Some people live under threat of death from early in their lives. But as a straight, middle-class, white man, the concept that I was not immortal had honestly never occurred to me. And as an only child, I found the idea that the story of creation might go on without me as the hero not merely terrifying, but insulting. But there are moments of clarity in life when all the lies you tell yourself fall away. I remember it as a physical feeling. I was halfway through my 40th year, Mustache 2 in graying bloom, and I was suddenly gripped, just above my stomach, by the dumb, offensive truth we always avoid. Everything ends. Nothing lasts. Not even John Hodgman. Lucky for me it was 2012. And here were the ancient Mayans and their contemporary acolytes to predict the end of all things, a global cataclysm that would swallow us all. I obviously did not really want the world to end, but I took strange comfort in thinking that I would be there, and that the story of creation would end with me. You may have noticed that the world did not end in 2012, as the Mayans predicted. Very embarrassing. And, another illusion dropped away. I was not a main character of existence. I would age, be replaced and forgotten, and eventually free up space for younger, hungrier, smarter souls, and that was exactly right. So, yeah. At that point, why not grow a beard? When you don’t know what to do in your life, there is always the mystery of what happens if you just do nothing. What if I just stop taking care of myself? And what will come out of my face? My beard is the answer. You cannot see it, but I must make you see it. Its lushest portions gather on my neck (of course) and terminate to a devilish point on my chin. On the sides, it looks like salt-and-pepper ants climbing up and down my face. The mustache and soul patch of yore are still there, but still refusing to connect to each other. I knew my beard would turn out badly. But I was compelled to grow it. It was a mysterious compulsion. All men, I think, wonder who the secret man who lives inside them is and whom they will meet in the mirror when they stop shaving. They wonder if that man is better than the one they saw in the mirror of their younger lives. Whoever it is who emerges, they hope that elder sage or fantasy wizard or feral mountain man will be wiser than they, and when they are lost, they hope that dude will light up his staff and guide them through the dwarven mines and out of the wilderness. Based on the overall effect, the secret man inside me is the part-time bookkeeper for the Church of Satan. I’m the guy who goes in every other Monday and goes through the ledger and complains to the Magus that they are spending too much money on red candles. And what is this $3,500 for cleaning? What was that for? The sex magick ritual? Jesus Christ, you guys … Oh! Sorry! I mean, Hail, Satan! This is not the man I expected to live inside of me, to guide me through this haunted forest that is middle age, to hack a new path of years forward through darkening woods. But we can grow only the beards we can. I didn’t choose him, but I am counting on him.