“Imagine your rapist had been found guilty and sentenced in court. What would you want his sentence to be?” This was the question asked to me in January 2016 by my therapist during a session of eye movement desensitization and reprocessing therapy (E.M.D.R.) — a treatment that researchers tout as one of the best remedies for severe trauma and post-traumatic stress disorder. I was raped repeatedly during a three-year span from age 13 to 16. I was also subject to physical and emotional abuse during that time. I’ve since undergone years of traditional talk and group therapy with trauma specialists, and I am more healed today than I ever thought possible. Still, recovering from trauma is a serious endeavor, and I hoped for more healing. I had never thought filing a police report was a viable option. I was now in my 30s; the statute of limitations had long since passed. My therapist’s thought experiment, then, was truly an exercise in pure imagination. Unsure how to proceed, I took a methodological approach; I would first imagine the harshest sentence possible, then a sentence slightly less severe, moving backward until I found a sentence that seemed fitting. Supposing I brought my rapist to trial, that he was convicted by a judge and sentenced to death, it was surprising to me that I deemed this punishment wholly appropriate. I’m not a proponent of the death penalty primarily because the flaws in our criminal justice system are egregious and increasingly well-documented. The thought experiment’s framing, however, circumvented my usual concerns about unjust sanctions. I know what my rapist did to me, so I know he is guilty. Worries about the inhumanity of capital punishment were also blunted in part because this was purely hypothetical and in part because of the inhumanity he exhibited those long years with his penchant for violence. Although the death sentence seemed wholly appropriate, I still considered how I would feel if a judge gave my rapist a less severe punishment: a natural life sentence — a life sentence with no chance for parole without a successful appeal. In this scenario, my feelings were just as clear: I would be slightly disappointed, but I would still feel mostly satisfied. Anything less than a death or natural life sentence, I knew, would seem inadequate. After reporting back to my therapist, she offered another thought experiment. “What if,” she said, “your rapist had been sentenced to death, but then had been pardoned?” I did not have to mull this question over. I knew I would feel exactly as I do now, exactly as I have felt for the past two decades: that the world is a terribly unjust place. It is a place where my life can be irrevocably transformed because a man could exert control, manipulation and violence over me for years without repercussion. It is a place where my rapist and others like him are enabled at both societal and local levels. His mother, for example, simply told us to quiet down whenever she heard my screams — a response as horrifying as it is understandable given the many ways society tolerates violence against women. A hypothetical pardon would allow him to escape repercussions just as he has escaped them in reality. Nearly 20 years later as I began trauma therapy again, he has a secure job, an accomplished and beautiful wife, and a healthy daughter. He is living a life many dream of, while my life is disrupted as I continue to heal from the wounds he inflicted when I was a child. E.M.D.R. begins with the choice of reliving either the earliest traumatic memory or the most painful, rendering it as harrowing as it is effective; E.M.D.R. is not for the faint of heart. IN FEBRUARY 2016 — only weeks after the thought experiments with my therapist — the philosopher Jennifer Lackey published an opinion piece in The Stone. In the article, she uses her experience teaching philosophy to inmates to argue for the irrationality of natural life sentences. Lackey bases her argument against natural life sentences on two reasonable claims: (1) people (criminals, specifically) can and do change in profoundly transformative ways, and (2) we cannot know the future. For Lackey, the fact that we have good statistical evidence that criminals can and do change is especially problematic given our vast epistemic limitations regarding the future. “Natural life sentences,” she wrote, “say to all involved that there is no possible piece of information that could be learned between sentencing and death that could bear in any way on the punishment the convicted is said to deserve, short of what might ground an appeal.” Citing the possibility of prisoner transformation, Lackey then puts her question about rationality directly: “How is it rational,” she asks, “to screen off the relevance of this information? How, that is, is it rational to say today that there can be no possible evidence in the future that could bear on the punishment that a decades-from-now prisoner deserves?” Natural life sentences, Lackey notices, are a “glaring exception” to the way we think about rational decision making in other contexts. Natural life sentences “permit binding, life-altering decisions to be made in a state of radical epistemic impoverishment.” Lackey’s argument strongly suggests that transformation is an exceedingly important consideration for sentencing. This is not an alien notion; the criminal justice system often takes good behavior and contrition as evidence of transformation that is relevant to one’s sentence. This occurs not just under the direction of theories that value rehabilitation, but in all but the “crudest forms of retributive justice.” Rehabilitation, then, is one aspect that many believe separates crude justice theories from other, presumably better, justice theories. I read Lackey’s article very soon after the thought experiments with my therapist. I noticed that Lackey’s argument easily applied to the death penalty, and I realized that the sentences I desired for my rapist were precisely the ones Lackey condemns as irrational. Since nothing in her argument prevented me from applying her logic to my own desires, I had to wonder if her argument also concluded that I was irrational for desiring permanent punishments. If it is irrational for the state to prescribe a permanent punishment given our epistemic limitations and prisoners’ likelihood for change, wouldn’t it be similarly irrational for victims to ignore these considerations? There are, of course, crucial differences between victim’s desires and punishments carried out by the state. While sometimes the criminal justice system considers the wishes of victims and their families, the criminal justice system’s central aim is to protect the interests of the state and the community. This aim does not always coincide with the interests or wishes of the victim. Admittedly, there are often very good reasons for the state to ignore the wishes of victims. But my concern is less about what the state should do in practice and more about what arguments that prioritize transformation say about victims who desire permanent punishments. Here I will be blunt: it matters very little to me whether my rapist is transformed at some point in his life. It matters to me only to the extent that I will readily agree that it would be better if he became the sort of person who did not inflict violence upon others. I would be very happy hearing that no other women would be harmed by him. But in terms of the punishment that he deserves? Transformation does not matter to me. And this is not irrational: There are many carefully considered reasons one might want a natural life sentence for perpetrators of egregious and irrevocable harm. Desiring death or a natural life sentence for those who inflict traumatic violence is a rational response because whether or not my particular rapist transforms is irrelevant to whether or not I will ever have the chance to be the sort of person I might have been. His transformation is irrelevant to whether or not I will be able to live the sort of life I could have were it not for the injustice done to me. I desire a death or natural life sentence for my rapist because that is what seems appropriate given the amount of damage he wrought in my life. Rape is itself a transformative experience. I will never be the same, and I have no idea how my life might have been different without the experience. My rapist expertly dismantled my sense of self as he isolated me from friends and family. He manipulated me so that he could more effectively inflict violence and exert power and control over me. I know that I have suffered, that I have struggled, and that I might not have survived. I’ve read about the neurological effects of prolonged trauma, and I know that I am now — and perhaps always will be — affected in some capacity by the things he did to me. After plenty of rational consideration, I cannot imagine any personal transformation that would make me think he deserves anything less than a permanent punishment. In response, one might call my stance a crude form of retributive justice. Perhaps it is. I know that expressing desire for retribution is a risky move in its unpopularity. Social narratives have long praised forgiveness and love especially for those who have wronged us. Theories of justice have also moved beyond ones that emphasize retribution — and for good reason in many cases. I understand this perspective: For many years it was abhorrent for me to think of responding to the violence I suffered with more violence. But calling the desire for permanent punishment crude does not render it irrational however unpopular it might be. One might, in the end, respond by saying that arguments like Lackey’s are proposing only policy change. These arguments, we might say, are not meant to prescribe the appropriate feelings for victims. If so, we might think that my worries about what arguments can say to individual victims is off the mark. While it’s clear that policy change can be a central aim, audiences of such arguments include victims of traumatic crimes. Yet it is not clear that such arguments always take victims into account. Although my attitude is in no way representative of all victims, epistemic arguments that prioritize criminal transformation must contend with the implication that they can be used to paint trauma victims irrational when they desire retribution. It’s certainly important to advocate for prisoners who are wrongly incarcerated and for those who were victims of the overzealous war on crime era. The injustices in our criminal justice system are too numerous and too serious to ignore. But criminal justice reform should not be so myopic that it compounds trauma survivors’ victimization. Those who manage to survive traumatic crimes have enough to battle without arguments that undermine their rational considerations. Advocates for criminal justice reform can, and should, do better.