This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. I spent much of last week using a semi-driverless car, and I write about it in my column this morning. The experience was a bit nerve-racking at times, but it was also fun. More important, it left me convinced that driverless cars have the potential to save a lot of lives. I’m guessing that many of you feel anxious or skeptical about driverless cars — I did. If so, I hope you’ll read my column and keep an open mind. Above all, remember that the status quo is pretty terrible. More than 37,000 Americans were killed last year in crashes involving human-driven cars. That’s more than the toll from gun deaths and almost as large as the toll from breast cancer. You can also read a recent Times editorial arguing for stricter regulation of driverless cars. My take is different: I think that consumer pressure for safe driverless cars will be intense and that government regulation, while necessary, is secondary. But, as I’ve said before, one goal of this newsletter is to give you different perspectives. The adult in the room? The Wall Street Journal ran a remarkable editorial early on Friday. It heaped scorn on both President Trump and the news media for going “tit for tat, like children on a schoolyard.” In contrast, the Journal explained, John Kelly, Trump’s chief of staff, acted as the adult in the room when he defended Trump’s call to Sgt. La David Johnson’s widow. “John Kelly made a lot of people look small Thursday,” the editorial argued. Oops. By midmorning Friday, it became clear that Kelly’s remarks had included a harsh and blatantly untrue description of a Democratic congresswoman’s behavior in 2015. The South Florida Sun Sentinel provided video proof. Rather than admitting Kelly’s error, apologizing or allowing him to take further questions, the White House sent out a spokeswoman to claim that nobody should criticize Kelly because he is a retired four-star general. The Journal hasn’t yet followed up on its adult-in-the-room editorial. Given the famed pugnacity of the Journal editorial page, I assume it will eventually, and I’ll keep you posted. Meanwhile... With the controversy over Trump’s remarks to Sgt. Johnson’s widow dominating media coverage last week, what story got lost in the scrum? Susan Hennessey and Benjamin Wittes argue that it was Jeff Sessions admitting to the Senate on Wednesday how little the Justice Department is doing to protect American elections from future foreign interference. “This was a frank display of ignorant complacency in the face of a clear and demonstrated threat,” they write in Foreign Policy. In The Times. My colleague Ross Douthat wrote a column that I recommend to any Democrats and progressives who care about winning elections. “As much as the country needs a conservatism with some idea of what it’s doing, some theory of the common good,” Ross wrote, “it needs a liberalism that stops marinating in its own self-righteousness long enough to compete effectively for rural, Southern and Midwestern votes.”