You know when you go to the mall and get your picture taken with Santa? My family took those Polaroids. It was their job. Every time I visit my parents, I love going through old photos. Not the thousands of digital ones we have now, but ones that took some effort — 35 mm, 110 mm and Polaroids. Flipping through the albums, I see our selective family history recorded in flashbulb splashes and unintended grain. The misdirected movements of everyday life are recorded for posterity, through unwitting subjects not realizing their photo was being taken. I’ve looked at these photos for 40 years and it’s still addictive. You see the same things differently with time. Recently I was home and looking through the photos again, and I saw some family Polaroids. Photos of me with a strange robot from the 1980s, and ones of me at a haunted house. Then more haunted house photos of a werewolf. Then photos of the Easter bunny. And then I realized — those are my parents. It wasn’t that I forgot we had a Polaroid job — my parents owned a business where we would go with a giant Polaroid camera to various events and people would pay us to take photos, either at store openings with clowns or during the major holidays, with my parents generally dressing as the appropriate iconic character. It was that only with time away from it did I realize how crazy this family business seems in retrospect. I flashed back. When I was 11, our basement was full of masks, makeup and costumes, cool stuff for every holiday and popular characters. Mostly Halloween monsters that we used to help run a local haunted house. Bizarre homemade masks on the window sill next to fancy store-bought masks. Frankenstein’s Monster and The Werewolf and Darth Vader and the aforementioned giant rabbit. You didn’t have to be a kid for it to be an insanely magical atmosphere. And I realized this was probably the reason I got into making movies and trying to entertain people, as I’m still doing decades later. This short doc tries to capture the strange story of my parents’ brief foray into this Polaroid world, one that feels pretty distant today. The film is minimal on purpose, trying to replicate sitting in a room and showing friends a photo album or a slide show and talking over it. What is inside the photos is the action. We may never physically touch photos in the future, but let’s hope we can still have deep emotions and hilarious memories from them. Either way, I hope you enjoy this taste of what 1980s small-town America dished out.