Gail Collins: Bret, we really need to talk about taxes. Sort of difficult to concentrate on the subject, what with the way things keep exploding in Washington. The past week was astonishing. Unnerving. Unholy. But this is supposed to be the moment when things get fiscal. The Republicans may not all agree on much, but they’re determined to pass a tax cut bill by the end of the year. What do you think of the ideas that have been coming out of Congress and the White House? Bret Stephens: Asking me about tax cuts is like asking a child about ice cream: Some flavors might be preferable to others but it’s pretty much all good (with qualified exceptions, like pistachio). I’d love to see our corporate rates come down, as the White House proposes. I’d also love to see fewer brackets and a lower top rate. This isn’t because I’m greedy for myself or my friends in the plutocracy. It’s because I think it’s necessary for the United States to get back to an annual G.D.P. growth rate of 3 percent or more. Robust economic growth would solve a lot of problems and take much of the air out of Trumpism. Gail: It’d be the opposite — if there’s a tax cut and the economy goes up 3 percent, Trump will totally take credit. That alone is a good reason to just let things alone. Besides the whole unnecessary-gift-to-the-rich part. Bret: Good point about Trump taking credit. But Trump takes credit for anything, and I’d hate to begrudge Americans economic growth just because it might help the president politically. The larger point, though, is that Trumpism is fueled by a sense of economic anxiety that has exploded into fury, and there is no curing that until growth in the real economy (not just the stock market) resumes and creates a genuine sense of mobility and opportunity. If the rich benefit disproportionately it is only because they pay a disproportionate share of taxes. Gail: The rich pay more taxes, but if they get a cut, they’re more likely to just sock it away. It’s the non-rich who go out and use the new income to buy stuff. That in turn gins up the economy. Bret: So here is where we get to the root of our differences on taxes. When the rich “sock it away,” that only means that they are spending or investing, which is to say, putting the money into the real economy just like everyone else. They create jobs when they build a second home or become angel investors in a promising start-up or reinvest in their own businesses. Yes, it’s “trickle down” economics. No doubt most of our readers agree with me entirely! That being said, I’m sorry that this isn’t the kind of bipartisan tax reform we had under Reagan in 1981 or 1986, when Democratic senators like Bill Bradley and congressmen like Dan Rostenkowski and Dick Gephardt were backers of the legislation. The result is that the only reform we can get now, to avoid a presumptive Democratic filibuster, is through the parliamentary shenanigan known as budget reconciliation. And budget reconciliation requires that tax reform not add to the deficit, which leads to some pretty bad ideas, like a border tax or slashing the 401(k) deductibility limit to balance the books. Gail: Bill Bradley once told me that he got interested in tax reform because when he was a basketball player he was a depreciable asset. Maybe our problem now is that we can’t write off any members of the Senate. Bret: Love the Bill Bradley line. Good thing depreciation doesn’t apply to newspaper columnists. We just get better with age, like wine. Uh, right? Gail: We’re all walking Bordeaux. But about those taxes — we’re obviously not going to get a bipartisan deal as long as a certain president is in the White House. Right now there’s a modest, sensible bipartisan health care plan floating around that the Senate could pass right away if Donald Trump would get behind it. But he keeps changing his mind. I’m interested in your complaint about how the current rules require that tax reform not add to the deficit. Do you think the deficit isn’t a problem? Bret: I only worry about deficits in extended periods of slow growth. Nobody thinks of Carter-era stagflation as a prosperous time for the United States, but the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio was low: just under 31 percent in 1980 as opposed to around twice that in the middle of the Clinton boom. And there are times when the government has legitimate reasons to spend a lot of money and pile on debt, like winning World War II under Roosevelt or the Cold War under Reagan. We should never hold public prosperity hostage for the sake of a statistical artifact dear mostly to anally retentive deficit scolds preaching “The end is nigh!” But I think you’ve put your finger on something essential. Bipartisanship is moribund under this president because he’s thrashed the concept and possibility of trust in politics. There was a brief ray of hope last month when he seemed ready to strike a deal on DACA, but that seems to have collapsed, too. Speaking of trust, do you trust General Kelly? Gail: Do you remember those days of yore when everybody presumed Trump wouldn’t blow up the planet because he had those three sensible generals hovering in the background? Generals who were undoubtedly working out a plan among themselves for how to put a lid on the president if he tried to drop a bomb on North Korea? Seems so quaint now. As out of date as the theory that Ivanka and Jared would turn him into a social moderate so their New York friends wouldn’t give them the cold shoulder. How about you? Bret: Trump single-handedly destroys the theory of containment. Nothing and nobody contains him. And he tarnishes everything and everyone around him. He’s like a hyper-empowered schlemiel — I’m using the Yiddish word for the guy who proverbially spills his borscht all over you — while turning the rest of us into his schlimazels, the ones who get spilled on. The latest political fiasco involving Trump’s condolence calls is such a case in point. This should be the one thing every president ought to be able to get right. But Trump couldn’t help but turn an accusatory political finger at Barack Obama, which was wrong on fact, wretched as principle and dumb as politics. And then Kelly, for whom I used to have nothing but admiration, soiled his own moment by defending the president and needlessly pointing an accusatory finger at Representative Frederica Wilson, which once again turned out to be wrong on fact, wretched as principle and dumb as politics. When did people forget when to know how to leave well enough alone? Like, you know, Bill O’Reilly. Gail: Yow, I’m not sure the concept of “let alone” is one O’Reilly ever mastered. But about Trump — we’re seeing more and more outcry from traditional Republicans. George W. Bush made a powerful speech last week. Senator Corker from Tennessee has done everything but picket the White House. John McCain has been incredible. But none of it seems to have any impact on the base. Really coming to dread that base. What do you think is going to happen to the party? Will it be Bannonized? Split in two? Bret: I fear the worst. The only people who seem to be standing up to Bannon are either retiring, retired or gravely ill. But where’s Paul Ryan? What about Mitch McConnell? Watching him standing alongside Trump in that Rose Garden ceremony the other day was like watching a hostage video. “Stockholm syndrome” is something conservatives used to accuse liberals of suffering from. Ha! Today it’s the so-called establishment Republicans who have fallen in love with their mad captor. Gail: Yeah, if he wasn’t around, they’d be forced to give up their good office space to the other side. Bret: All parties have their extremists; every political persuasion has its fanatical tendency. Republicans have spent the past 60 or so years trying to dissociate themselves from their nativist, isolationist, ethnonationalist wing only to fall right back into it. It’s like a man falling off the wagon after decades of sobriety. I don’t think the party of Reagan will survive Trumpism. Those of us who subscribe to some version or another of moderate conservatism are going to have to find a new political home, either alongside centrist, Clinton-style Democrats — who, I hope, will hold the Democratic reins in 2020 — or in an entirely new party, the Party of Sanity. As someone once said to somebody, 4,000 or so years ago, surely there must be 10 good people left in this wicked city. Gail: I suspect that in a Trump-free world, the moderate Republicans and the Clinton-style Democrats would notice they still have a lot — not in common. Such as taxes. But it’s amazing how the current occupant of the White House has managed to bring us together. Should we thank him? O.K., I guess not. Happy United Nations Day, Bret. And next week it’s Halloween. Who are you going trick-or-treating as? Bret: As Steve Bannon, of course. Can you think of anything more ghoulish than that?