This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. “GOP failure to preserve #SALT will devastate NY and LI. Must vote NO on budget to stop this!” That tweet — and I’ll decode the acronyms momentarily — may sound as if it comes from an unhappy Democrat, but it doesn’t. Pete King, the Long Island (“LI”) Republican who’s been in the House for almost 25 years, sent the tweet Tuesday evening. He is unhappy with the current Republican tax plan because it would eliminate the deduction for state and local taxes (“SALT”), and he has company in the Republican caucus. The deduction reduces income taxes for millions of families across the country. Nationwide, almost 30 percent of taxpayers benefit — and at least 17 percent of households in every state benefit. The Republican tax plan would eliminate the deduction, which disproportionately benefits the upper middle class, largely to help pay for tax cuts for the very wealthy. No wonder some House Republicans are grousing. Tom MacArthur, a Republican from New Jersey, has said that there are enough members unhappy about losing SALT to block the House budget — a first step toward a tax cut — from passing. (It’s not clear if he’s correct about that. House leaders said last night that they would proceed with a vote today on the House budget, which is a sign of confidence.) Either way, though, a theme is emerging: The Republicans are having a hard time passing bills that shower gifts on the wealthy and stick everyone else with the bill. Congressional leaders and Trump administration officials wrote a health care bill that fit that description, and now they’ve drafted a similar tax plan. For a typical person making $7 million, for example, the tax plan would bestow an estimated tax cut of more than $700,000. The most likely outcome on SALT seems to be a compromise that reduces the deduction without eliminating it. But a compromise won’t solve some of the tensions here. The more of the deduction that remains, the more that the tax plan will increase the deficit, which might scare off some other House members or senators. These tensions are a big reason that Representative Kevin Brady, the lead writer of the tax bill in the House, suggested yesterday that he and his colleagues may buck President Trump and reduce the tax benefits for 401(k) plans. Doing so would be a way to reduce the bill’s budgetary cost — but, of course, would also anger many taxpayers. I continue to think that the Republicans are more likely than not to pass a tax cut. The party’s leaders are desperate for a win, and reducing taxes is a core principle for Republicans. But they have made the task more difficult by insisting on such an enormous tax cut for the wealthy. The focus on the wealthy gives them much less flexibility with every other aspect of the bill. Who knew that tax policy was so complicated?  Flake’s exit. Why has Jeff Flake fared worse in the polls than some of Trump’s other Senate critics, like Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski? Josh Barro of Business Insider and Ross Douthat of The Times have both argued that Flake is suffering from the lack of popular support for the traditional Republican agenda. While Collins and Murkowski have occasionally defied Trump on policy, Flake broke with him largely on style and decency. “Flake is helpless,” Barro writes, “because there’s no real constituency in America for what he favors: low taxes and spending, openness to immigration and trade, international collaboration where America honors its commitments, and polite public behavior.” Chris Coons, a Democratic senator from Delaware, offers a more sympathetic take on his colleague’s decision: “I may disagree with Mr. Flake on policy, but I consider him an honorable man, a loyal friend and a valued colleague,” Coons writes in The Times. “His retirement is deeply troubling to me because he represents a principled and patriotic Republican Party, one that has long championed strong American leadership around the world, and one I now fear is falling apart.”