Back in March, when the horror of Donald Trump’s presidency was still fresh, “Saturday Night Live” ran a faux movie trailer about a political hero. “It was a country in chaos,” a narrator dramatically intoned over a montage of frightening news footage. “A nation divided, led by a president of unchecked power.” The voice-over continued as a man in a camel coat walked resolutely up a set of stone steps: “Until one Republican decided enough was enough. A patriot who put country over party.” The camera panned toward his face: “A man by the name of …” The letters “TBD,” for to be determined, flashed on the screen. Underlying the “S.N.L.” sketch was an assumption, which I shared, that the first elected Republican to truly take on the president would be showered in glory. For months, I was incredulous about the timidity of those Republicans in Congress who knew that Trump’s presidency was an abomination but refused to say so publicly. What job is worth such shameful complicity? Don’t they worry about the judgment of history? This week, Republican senators Bob Corker of Tennessee and Jeff Flake of Arizona finally said what some of us have longed to hear from those in their position. On Tuesday, Corker told CNN that Trump will be remembered for the “debasement of our nation.” Later that day, Flake announced he wouldn’t be running for re-election, and excoriated Trump on the Senate floor. “We must never regard as normal the regular and casual undermining of our democratic norms and ideals,” said Flake. He denounced the administration’s “personal attacks, the threats against principles, freedoms and institution, the flagrant disregard for truth and decency.” Our children, he said, are watching: “When the next generation asks us: ‘Why didn’t you do something? Why didn’t you speak up?,’ what are we going to say?” It was a speech worthy of S.N.L.’s imaginary hero. But real life is not a (fake) movie, and Flake’s speech did not unite a thankful nation. Instead, many Trump critics were nonplused. Noting that Flake had voted with the president 91 percent of the time, the Democratic National Committee chairman, Tom Perez, said in a statement that his retirement “is symbol of a Republican Party whose leaders allow Donald Trump’s divisive politics to flourish as long as it serves their political interests, and who fail to criticize this dangerous president until it’s too late.” A headline on the progressive website ThinkProgress said, “Jeff Flake is not a hero, despite what he wants you to think.” Well, I don’t know what Flake wants me to think, but I believe he behaved heroically on Tuesday. ThinkProgress sniped that it’s easy to criticize the president when your 18 percent approval rating precludes re-election. But while Flake has long had relatively low approval ratings, they really cratered precisely because of his opposition to Trump. It’s certainly true that Flake has voted with Trump to advance right-wing policies, most of which I find morally repulsive. But Flake is extremely conservative — as of 2016, the American Conservative Union gave him a 93 percent lifetime rating, a score comparable to that of Jeff Sessions. The senator believed in the policies he was voting for; from his point of view, there was no valor in opposing them. All the same, he’s now arguing that telling the truth about Trump is more important than enacting his most cherished political priorities. In doing so, he’s sacrificed a career he’s spent a lifetime building. He’s given more than most to the fight against Trump and Trumpism. Indeed, as much as I hate Flake’s politics, I suspect there’s a connection between his intense political commitments and his bravery. Not long ago, I spoke to Eyal Press, the author of “Beautiful Souls: The Courage and Conscience of Ordinary People in Extraordinary Times,” a book about those who resist immoral authorities and institutions. We tend, Press told me, to “think of these people as iconoclasts, or imagine that they are somehow people with a kind of oppositional spirit,” but in fact, most of them are true believers in the purported ideals of their organizations. It’s because they value those ideals so highly, he said, that they’re moved to break ranks when they see them tarnished. To recognize the role of Flake’s conservative principles in fueling his dissent is not to absolve the conservative movement for Trump. For decades, Republicans have stoked the culture war to win the support of people hurt by their economic policies. Under the guise of pushing back against left-wing bias, the right has systematically tried to discredit all objective sources of information, ushering in a berserk reactionary postmodernism in which truth loses its meaning. And though the Republican Party’s racial appeals used to be more coded, it’s been capitalizing on white resentment for a long time. All the same, Trump is not just a vulgar version of a normal conservative. His authoritarianism threatens libertarian ideals as well as progressive ones, he’s personally repugnant in ways that transcend politics, and his incompetence endangers us all. There’s no contradiction between abhorring conservatism and being grateful to the conservatives who stand up to Trump. Some who’ve criticized Flake have said that, rather than quitting, he should defend his principles in a primary fight. Maybe, but even the strongest-minded people can’t avoid tailoring their words and actions to suit the exigencies of political campaigns. The need to be re-elected can too easily become an excuse not to act. Talking to a Republican Trump critic recently, I asked, as I often do, how his Republican friends in Congress live with themselves. He said some justify their silence by saying that if they speak out, they could be replaced by Trumpist lunatics. They’re not wrong, but they’re also offering up a common rationale for perpetual acquiescence. As Masha Gessen wrote right after the election, those who collaborate with authoritarianism often insist that they’re trying to ameliorate its excesses. There are always reasons not to speak up for what’s right. Now that they’ve spoken, the next step for Flake, Corker, Senator John McCain and other Republicans who hope to be remembered kindly by history is to act. Corker, the head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, could hold hearings into how Trump has already eroded America’s position worldwide. Both Corker and Flake should be willing to support legislation protecting the investigation of Robert Mueller, the special counsel, into Trump’s ties to Russia. They should also back legislation to curb the president’s ability to launch nuclear weapons unilaterally, and leave the door open to supporting impeachment. In his speech, Flake promised to use his remaining 14 months in office standing up and speaking out “as if our country depends on it.” If he fails to do that, he’ll deserve progressive dismissals. But while a stirring anti-Trump speech is not enough, it’s a start. The resistance needs all the help it can get.