It’s been 10 years since the financial crisis in which many people lost so much. Two of the unlucky ones were my parents, now in their mid-80s. Which is why, on a recent morning, I typed out an email to a sports memorabilia auctioneer, asking about the value of a collection of signed baseballs from 1948. I’ve helped my parents sell some other things of value since 2007 — listing the mower on Craigslist, hooking them up with an antiques dealer. I also made the rounds in New York’s diamond district, looking for the best price for my mom’s wedding ring. We held onto it, in the end, because the offers didn’t seem like enough. Now we’re down to my dad’s cherished baseballs. They’ve always lived in a wooden case that my mom made for them. She sawed the oak and built a grid — like a giant waffle iron — with each square housing its own ball. She sanded it and stained it a nice deep brown, covering the front with plexiglass. But my parents could use the money. “It’s also true,” my dad told me, “that at my age I’m not going to be around much longer to look at them. And no one in the family gives a hoot about baseball.” For one season, in 1948, my dad was a batboy for the Chicago White Sox. He was 14. He had entered an essay contest sponsored by the now-defunct Chicago Daily News. “I was just a crazy baseball fan,” he told me. Professional basketball and football weren’t nearly what they would become. Joe DiMaggio and Ted Williams were back for their third season since serving in the military during the war. Jackie Robinson had just broken the color barrier the year before with the Brooklyn Dodgers. “We all dreamed of the day when we each could become a professional baseball player ourselves,” Dad said. He found out he was a finalist for batboy when a telegram arrived from the general manager of the team. Once he was hired, he was dispatched to the Wilson Sporting Goods Company to be measured for a uniform and to pick out a glove for himself. The day before, he’d been a Cubs fan, like all kids who grew up on the north side of Chicago, but had no trouble switching loyalties. “It was baseball and it was Chicago,” he told me. “From that day forward I became a rabid White Sox fan.” He was small for his age, maybe 5-foot-3, and skinny. The players took to calling him “Kid” or “Red” because of his hair. Before every game he would show up at the park three hours early, hauling out equipment and chopping ice for the water cooler. On occasion, the players would invite him to take part in batting practice. The pitchers would sometimes fool with him, whipping a real fast one over the plate. When he was lucky enough to hit a ball solidly, there was lots of cheering. In the dugout, Luke Appling, who became a Hall of Famer, always had a mouth full of tobacco. He got a big kick out of spitting on Dad’s shoe. “I was happy to have him do it,” Dad told me. During the game, Dad knelt on the field 20 feet from home plate and all the heroes who stepped up to it: Williams, DiMaggio, Lou Boudreau. It was important that he not call attention to himself, but once when he didn’t hustle enough to grab a bat, he heard from Yogi Berra, who had just come up to the majors. “Hey kid,” he said, “next time, be sure you get that bat out of there a bit more quickly.” One of the White Sox’ big hitters, Pat Seerey, thought of my dad as something of a good-luck charm. Before games, while the other players warmed up with each other, Seerey threw the ball back and forth with him. Each time, Seerey would take a step back. By the end Dad could barely get it back to him. “I don’t think I ever threw it away, though.” My dad was there, in Philadelphia, when Seerey hit four home runs in a single game, joining an exclusive club. My dad is in the newspaper photo, standing at home plate, waiting for Seerey to come in. He wanted to be there to shake his friend’s hand. Razzing from the dugout was a sport unto itself, and the part my dad probably enjoyed the most, as any 14-year-old boy would. Recalling the players’ shenanigans decades later makes him break into a full laugh. He remembers that every time the short and squat Berra was at bat, one of the Sox pitchers would imitate a monkey, looping his arm over the top of the dugout, scratching himself and ooh-ooh eee-eeeing. Williams once told a reporter that he’d rather be a fireman. So every time he was at bat, one of the Sox would walk back into the dugout tunnel, which served as a megaphone, and make loud siren noises. DiMaggio, though, was in his own class. He commanded more respect. Whenever he was up, all the players fell silent. After the games the players would take off their shoes and throw them in a heap. It was dad’s job to polish them up and put them back in the lockers. In those days, the uniforms were wool, and after a game they’d be wet with sweat. There was a huge oven in the clubhouse with a clothesline running through it. Dad would throw the uniforms over the line and dry them out in the oven so they could be worn the next day. After a two- or three-game series, they would be washed. Dad would usually get a ride home from one of the players or sportswriters. He was paid $1 a game. No tips. Sometimes he had to run errands for the clubhouse manager and get something from the opposing team’s clubhouse. That was my dad’s chance to approach the visiting players — DiMaggio, Williams, Bob Feller — all of whom signed the balls my dad held out for them. Across the front of one of my dad’s baseballs is neat cursive looping into the name Satchel Paige. It was Paige’s first year in the majors. The Negro Leagues star was one of the first African-Americans to join the American League. The White Sox were still all white. They were also dead last in the league and usually drew small crowds. But the first night the Indians came to Comiskey Park after signing Paige was different. The entire stadium was full. Thousands were turned away. Dad doesn’t remember any racial taunting, just that so many black Chicagoans had come to see their hero, the 42-year-old rookie. “Satchel pitched a great game too,” he said, a five-hit shutout. (Before the integration of the game, Comiskey was usually where the big event of the Negro Leagues season, the East-West All-Star Game, was played.) The Sox finished the season 46 games behind the Indians, who went on to win the World Series, the last time they did so. The Satchel Paige ball is worth the most. Dad may get a couple thousand for it. There is one he’s holding onto, though. It’s the ball that all the White Sox signed. Its value is almost nothing, to everyone but my dad.