There are a lot of ways to pursue a career in a creative field. One path — that many young people eventually discover — is through the doggy door of a powerful institution. All of those unpaid or underpaid interns, fact-checkers, personal assistants and aides — they are tomorrow’s writers, directors, artists and editors. Or at least, that’s what they hope. Unlike people in jobs that require advanced degrees, these workers often serve at the pleasure of powerful gatekeepers. You dream of making a movie eventually, so you’re grateful for a few odd jobs fetching coffee on set. Or you hope to have your paintings in your own high-profile gallery show one day, but first you must help a famous artist sort through years of poorly kept records. Or in my case, you stay late at the office, ordering greasy takeout and checking facts in magazine articles, so that you might some day be able to write such articles yourself. The opportunities usually come with a set of underlying assumptions, though there is not always agreement about what those assumptions are. What these young people who toil behind the scenes lack in experience or technical skill, they make up for in ambition — an attribute that is not exactly in short supply among their cohort. And so their success may become dependent on less tangible, more subjective measures. The dynamics in these workplaces exist for both men and women. But as the events of the past few weeks have shown, it would be foolish to pretend that they don’t make young women particularly vulnerable. The allegations by dozens of women that the Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein harassed, assaulted or raped them have impelled other women to speak out. Last week, women came forward to accuse the political journalist Mark Halperin of harassment. A significant number of women spoke on the record alleging inappropriate treatment by Leon Wieseltier, literary editor of The New Republic, where I had my first job. An astonishing number of women (more than 300)  spoke to The Los Angeles Times to accuse the filmmaker James Toback of improper sexual conduct. Being a young woman at the bottom rung of an influential industry, especially one where men still largely dominate, is a dizzying, terrifying thrill. Because you are trying to prove your competence in an environment where men are in charge, the early workplace interactions take on extra weight and importance. I’m no longer one of these young women. But I was one once, as were most of my female friends. In recent weeks, we’ve started to look back at our early career experiences in a new light. There are the painful memories of unwanted advances and hotel room invitations. And then there are the smaller moments that make up a larger narrative, one that can be hard to see when you’re just trying to live through it: the supervisor who stands too close at happy hour and peers down your shirt; the boss who grills you for questions about your romantic life; the promise of mentorship that, you realize only in retrospect, was imbued with something less innocent. Stories of sexual harassment are almost always more complicated than the way they are represented in news coverage, and they don’t exist in a vacuum but as part of a broader culture. The incidents themselves don’t have to be traumatizing in the moment for them to accrue, over time, into a toxic pattern that hobbles a woman’s career. A sexual harasser can do untold damage to woman’s self-esteem, forcing her to leave her job or even her profession. But that’s not the only pernicious outcome: She might tolerate the sexual harasser because at least he has been nice to her or taken an interest in her career. His offenses may seem minor amid the other frustrations that she suspects might have something to do with sexism but can’t ever be sure of, like the boss who’s casually dismissive of her every idea, or the mentor who feels he must tear her apart to bring out her true genius. It can be hard sometimes, for both men and women, to fully understand what the right professional distance should be. But the problem is only compounded by the lack of more experienced women in positions of power to mentor their young counterparts. In the days since the accusations against Mr. Wieseltier have gone public, I have been talking with former colleagues and replaying years of uncomfortable moments in my head, not just with him, but of everything from unwanted kisses to inappropriate comments and looks. None of it seemed worth reporting at the time. But now I am thinking about how those situations might have shaped the decisions I made, and the way I viewed myself as a professional. I know I am not the only one. These small events have a way of adding up to a sense of displacement. It becomes harder and harder for a woman to look into the power structures she aspires to join and see herself as belonging — especially when there are so few women there to serve as examples. Even when there are other women at a similar level, being at the bottom rung of these organizations can be a very lonely place. When a young woman is in a workplace where she feels replaceable, it is particularly dangerous for her to work with someone who is treated as utterly irreplaceable. Politics, like the arts, is full of men like this — so powerful that they become both synonymous with institutions and above them. In that kind of environment, it is not surprising that a man might feel entitled to take advantage, and a woman might feel there’s no recourse. Lately, we are seeing something of a self-reckoning among well-meaning men. Speaking about the allegations against Mr. Weinstein, his longtime collaborator, the director Quentin Tarantino, confessed, “I knew enough to do more than I did.” In Slate, the “Parts Unknown” host Anthony Bourdain wondered, “Why was I not the sort of person, or why was I not seen as the sort of person, that these women could feel comfortable confiding in?” Of Mr. Wieseltier, one former editor told HuffPost, “I accept I was blind and complicit and just, like, did nothing.” All of this self-flagellation is heartening, particularly to women not accustomed to being believed or who have been told to just get over it. But it is not enough. Real change will require the willingness of men to promote women and share power. It will mean more than promoting one woman and encouraging the other female employees to be more like her. It will mean investing in and promoting the women you work with and realizing that while many employees are talented yet also complicated and flawed, women are usually the only ones who suffer for it. And it will require a serious investment in the work and ideas of young women, so that they aren’t made to feel disposable anymore.