ONCE upon a time, about a month ago, Elsa bewitched my 4-year-old daughter. When she announced she was dressing up as Disney’s famous princess Elsa for Halloween, my heart froze. Not only was Elsa no longer that cool, but also I thought we had successfully navigated past the sparkly, frilly land mines of early girlhood with progressive schooling and the sensible, Old World charm of Peppa Pig, who was only, by an unfortunate circumstance of birth, colored pink. The glittery, gaudy, pink, prissy, princess décor gives me a migraine. The costumes are uniform and mass-produced, and evoke the grotesque pageantry of American girlie-girl culture hilariously depicted by Peggy Orenstein in her book “Cinderella Ate My Daughter.” They cast girls into the most stereotypical, reductive gender roles. Most of all, these costumes are unimaginative and boring, and they encourage boring play. Halloween is complicated when you teach fairy tales for a living, and it’s no easier being the daughter of a professor than being the mother of a princess. I try to help my students see fairy tales as living narratives that underwent countless changes as they were told, written down and eventually adapted for the screen. The Disney princesses we know and love take much of the fun, feminist spark and quirky historical value out of the fairy tale tradition. For hundreds of years fairy tales were told by women to other women while spinning, weaving or performing other acts of domestic drudgery. The stories could often be crude, funny and bawdy: Little Red Riding Hood was a stripper; Rapunzel wasn’t just locked up in the tower — she was knocked up; it was Snow White’s own jealous, scheming mother, not her wicked stepmother, who was out for her blood. In the buttoned-up 17th and 19th centuries, when the Brothers Grimm and Charles Perrault, the French father of the Mother Goose stories, collected and transcribed these tales, much of that spunk was lost. In sanitizing and moralizing the tales, the Brothers Grimm, and later Disney — to a greater, and much more commercial, effect — watered down the feistiness of strong heroines. Little Red Riding Hood transforms from a self-possessed trickster who outsmarts the wolf on her own into a dainty dinner morsel who has to be saved by a huntsman in the Grimms’ version. In an older version, Cinderella escapes the incestuous overtures of her widowed father by running off to another kingdom and winning over a prince with her cunning and skill. With the Grimms, and ever after, it’s her beauty and martyrdom that win the day. The Grimms not only infused tales with strong Christian values but also systematically rewrote many stories to reinforce patriarchal gender norms. Hans Christian Andersen’s “The Snow Queen” — considered to be the urtext of “Frozen” — has heaps more to offer young women than the Disney version. In it, little Gerda journeys to the ends of the earth to save her best friend, Kai, from the clutches of the Snow Queen, who has frozen Kai’s heart. Without the help of any man, the fiercely independent and eloquent Gerda manages to persuade both robbers and ravens to assist her quest. In “Frozen,” Anna’s plot to find her sister Elsa is set in motion by her overdetermined, chocolate-fueled boy-craziness and depends on men to be executed. My 4-year-old doesn’t need a feminism lecture. Nor, for that matter, does she need to know the finer points of incest, infanticide or Little Red Riding Hood’s slut-shaming (by her grandmother’s cat — that happens!). But I want her to be aware of the polyphonic tradition of fairy tales where each story takes shape according to the ideas, whims and values of the teller. There’s more than one version of the story. In fact, there is no real or original story. You can be Elsa, but Elsa could be Gerda. And the Snow Queen could be in drag. More than other commercialized holidays, Halloween retains this mischievous air of appropriation, in which revelers can give old concepts new meaning and power. Yes, many people buy packaged Disney or superhero costumes for themselves or their children. But those can be remixed or transformed in fun, subversive ways that preserve the real magic linking Halloween to fairy tales and other folk traditions. Elsa’s blue dress could go well with a pair of combat boots, as her crown might with a skeleton costume. These kind of makeshift, D.I.Y. transformations should be celebrated as much as Elsa’s supposed moment of self-actualization, which is staged by Disney as a sexy makeover — complete with a slinky ball gown and silver high heels. In a time when rapacious ogres occupy the highest offices from Washington to West Hollywood, it is more important than ever to teach girls the power to take control of narratives that are all too often in the hands of men. The solution isn’t in telling my daughter what to wear, or what to read, but in giving her a range of stories that she can play with, and in, as she wishes. One of the core values of fairy tales, wrote the psychoanalyst Bruno Bettelheim, was that they empowered children to think for themselves and overcome obstacles on their own (hence the many dead, absent or negligent parents). My daughter can be Elsa, but she will have to know how Gerda saved Kai from the Snow Queen. At bedtime, when I sat down to tell my daughter a kid-friendly form of Andersen’s tale, she was far less attentive than my students. “This is boring. Let me tell you a story,” she insisted in her characteristic stubborn way. So, taking my cue from Elsa, I learned to let it go. I let her tell a rambling story of herself as Elsa living in a sparkly purple snow castle. At least she was telling it. And at the end of the day, I just wanted her to sleep. As long as it wasn’t for 100 years.