This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. You don’t see this sentence every morning: The former campaign chairman of the president of the United States will be charged with a federal crime. Now that the charges against that former chairman, Paul Manafort — and his protégé, Rick Gates — have become public, some of the focus will quickly turn to President Trump’s response. When it does, I encourage you to keep in mind just how weak a president he already is. He’s probably weaker than any first-term president in more than a century, based on his standing with the American public, his own party members in Congress and even his own cabinet officials. Many observers miss this reality, because they focus — understandably — on the support Trump still gets from Republican leaders (many of whom know that breaking with him could end their careers, as Jeff Flake learned). In historical terms, though, Trump’s support is off-the-charts weak. The political scientist Matt Glassman described Trump’s party backing as “atrocious,” in a perceptive series of tweets last night, arguing that only Andrew Johnson and John Tyler received less in their first year in office. “If Trump were at 56% approval, beloved by his elite, and had repealed ACA, passed tax cuts, he might be in good spot to fire Mueller,” Glassman wrote. Instead, Trump is “a weak POTUS in serious danger of a complete failed presidency.” The tax plan. Middle class. Middle class, middle class, middle class, middle class. That’s not a bad summary of Trump’s pitch about his tax plan. When he and his allies, like Steven Mnuchin and Paul Ryan, talk about it, they repeatedly claim that the plan will help ordinary Americans. But ordinary Americans don’t seem to be buying what Trump is selling. Several recent polls have found that the tax plan is unpopular. Perhaps the most telling poll came from The Associated Press and NORC, a research group at the University of Chicago. It asked people which groups would be helped or hurt by the tax plan, and then provided options: large corporations, the wealthy, small businesses, the middle class, low-income families and “you” — that is, the poll respondent. Only 35 percent thought the Trump plan would help them personally, compared with 38 percent who thought the plan would hurt them. By contrast, 69 percent thought big corporations would benefit, and 60 percent thought the wealthy would. (You can see the results in a chart on page 4 of this document.) And people are right that the Trump plan will not help them. My column this morning explains why. The Trump tax plan, based on what we know about it so far, is filled with stealth tax increases on the middle class and poor, some short-term and some long-term. I hope you learn something from the column. If you want the short version, check out the accompanying chart. The profile the media is buzzing about: Tim Alberta on the retired John Boehner, in Politico. Weinstein fallout. New York magazine’s Jonathan Chait recently wrote that he thought the Harvey Weinstein exposé, by The Times’s Jodi Kantor and Megan Twohey, “might become one of the most socially influential pieces of reporting in US history.” That’s obviously a high bar, but he has a point. The exposé has led to a flood of revelations about other sexual harassers, and I expect more are coming. In a Facebook Live conversation, Ashley Judd and Nick Kristof talked about the existence of “other Harvey Weinsteins” and fighting the “shame and guilt” gremlins.