Last week we asked readers for their favorite books on Vietnam and the Vietnam War. Dozens responded, with suggestions ranging from the well known to the obscure. Below are some of them; to chime in further, click here. I nominate “The Best and the Brightest,” by David Halberstam. I was in college at American University in Washingtonas a political science major. This book opened my eyes to the fallibility of our leaders. That, and it turned me into a lifelong Halberstam fan. His writing, even in his longer books, was so smooth it made reading for hours effortless. – Jerry Dyas “Matterhorn,” by Karl Marlantes. Having served as a Marine infantry platoon commander, executive officer and company commander in Vietnam from June 1968 to July 1969 in “I”, I can tell you that this novel does an incredible job of depicting the hardship of operating in the difficult mountainous terrain up by the DMZ, as well as the tenacity of the N.V.A. fighters, and the courage and dedication of our Marines. – Thomas Smith In my generation, there was a major schism between those who went to Vietnam and those who did not. I did not. I was safe and smug in the United States, threatened by tear gas and possible arrest at the many demonstrations I attended, not the mortars and rockets faced by soldiers and journalists in Vietnam. Years later, the rift that had opened in the 1960s and ’70s had not healed. Neither side seemed to acknowledge the truth – even the existence – of the other. Advertisement “The Cat from Hue,” by John Laurence, provides a carefully built bridge across that chasm for those of us, male and female, who ranted, “Hell, no, we won’t go!” at those of us who were drafted, enlisted and, hell, yes, went. Laurence went to Vietnam as a gung-ho young journalist with the good fortuned to be assigned by CBS to the biggest story around. His willingness to go into the field with the grunts, to endure discomfort and danger to bring their story home, was perhaps built on several faulty premises: that he was invulnerable, that there was glory to be witnessed and reported, and that it was his good luck to be there. In fact, it was and is our good luck. The stories that Laurence told then, from candid talks with soldiers to the harrowing mutiny caught on film in “The World of Charlie Company,” did much to convince those at home that our involvement in Vietnam, fueled by thousands of young men, was a mistake. – Susan Cope “The Things They Carried,” by Tim O’Brien, was the first book about the Vietnam War that I read. Because during the war I mostly helped men avoid the draft, I didn’t know the ones who came home after they came home, if they did. At least not in that decade; some I met as I grew older. The stories in O’Brien’s book are separate but linked. They allowed me a personal presence in scenes I read about in the news or saw on TV, but whose individual combatants I couldn’t touch, or feel with, or struggle to understand, until I read O’Brien’s narratives. – Tracy Moore This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The book that stands out for me is Neil Sheehan’s “A Bright Shining Lie.” It paints a very different picture – the shortcomings of the South Vietnam government and the ARVN and the tactical, strategic and political mistakes made by the Pentagon and the White House, all seen through the eyes of a man who was in the middle of it, feeling the incompetence and failures of those around him. Coupled with the leaking of the Pentagon Papers to Sheehan, the book shows that although those in command knew it was never going to succeed, they plowed on anyway. – Mike Oehlers One of the most memorable books I’ve read about Vietnam is the little “Annam,” by Christophe Bataille, translated from the French. This novella describes the arrival of the first French monks and nuns in Vietnam, and their efforts, to introduce Christianity to peasants in rural villages. They struggle, and in the process we learn through their eyes about early Vietnamese culture. The book was memorable because it is so unusual – set in the late 1700s, before French colonization, long before the French and American wars. It is a picture of a tranquil Vietnam before its culture was distorted, and its country wrecked. – Blaise Arena My favorite book on the Vietnam conflict is Michael Herr’s “Dispatches.” Herr plunges the reader into Vietnam with all of its cognitive dissonance and lack of narrative clarity. There is a sense that a great deal had already happened that one can barely glimpse, while the currents at work in Herr’s present are equally seen in snatches of light that only ever reveal part of reality. The New Journalism style Herr employed and his irreverent skepticism fit both the times broadly and the war specifically. Yet he always cared a great deal about the regular soldier and marine and what the war was for him. Afterward, we create strong linear cause and effect narratives to explain why things turned out the way they did, but “Dispatches” shows us what recent psychology has said: We make decisions and act with partial knowledge and lots cognitive biases holding us back. – James Tuten H. R. McMaster’s “Dereliction of Duty” is my favorite Vietnam book. McMaster avoids opinion and relies on government documents, presidential archives and oral histories to expose the duplicitous and dishonorable origins of the war. Hubris, election year requisites, Lyndon Johnson’s and Robert McNamara’s deception of the Joint Chief’s of Staff, the dismissal of warnings that the war was not winnable and a blatant disregard for human life in pursuit of personal politics all play center stage in this exposé by a career military man not afraid to criticize his own – and the politicians who lied to themselves and the nation. – Peter LaVasseur “They Marched Into Sunlight,” by David Maraniss. Powerful and poignant, this book tells the story of two events – ambushes if you will – that happened during the same two days in October 1967: one in Vietnam, one at the University of Wisconsin. Browsing the history section of a bookstore, I was floored by the book jacket description because I was at the demonstration that turned violent that day in Madison – my 20th birthday. Reading the book took me back to that time, not in any nostalgic way, but to a visceral recapturing of the emotions and the fear that came from being part of the cause and part of the effect of the war and its rippling violence. Advertisement For a time I kept reading to find myself, my 20-year-old self, in his descriptions and through the interviews, as if he could tell me what I was doing there – who I was. Maraniss was able to connect the 20-year-olds who were protesting the war with those in Vietnam in a way that has never quite been done, and it is a critical part of our collective story. I did not know anyone who was part of that particular battle. But I knew back then that I could have been in Vietnam. In my mind, I was one of them. That was the reaffirmation of this book for me. My empathy was motivating and debilitating at the same time. We were all pieces of a puzzle beyond our sphere of comprehension. We were full of doubt, uncertain and absolutely sure of it. I dropped out of Madison and fumbled my way through the existential trauma of those years, not easily but gradually establishing a center within myself. I had stopped reading about the Vietnam War as one after another book came out. But I am grateful for this one. – Barbara Esmark I don’t read a lot about the Vietnam War, but I cannot stop thinking about a debut novel I read recently: “This Eternity,” by Richard Wilks Taylor. Like the author, I am a retired Air Force officer. I’m really not sure what Taylor was thinking when he took on the task of painting the picture of an Army infantry platoon in the deep jungle of the Central Highlands. Moreover, I’m not sure what I was thinking by reading it. But I’m so glad I did. The novel was recommended by a close friend. Taylor did an astounding amount of research, making me think I was there. Fair warning; it’s not your normal war story. Think Vietnam murder mystery. A well-meaning greenhorn West Pointer runs into a psychopathic platoon sergeant. That’s one story. Then there’s the Montagnard village that’s just trying to mind its own business, but cannot seem to stay out of the conflict. I learned so much about these mountain people as human beings. Then there’s a third story, but I won’t say too much about that. Suffice it to say the three tales were interwoven to an O. Henry conclusion. – Gayden Green Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 