On Nov. 2, 1967, a dozen or so of America’s most respected foreign policy mandarins assembled at the White House to meet with President Johnson and his top Vietnam advisers. While the president maintained a sternly optimistic public face on the war, the conflict was threatening to consume his Presidency, and so he sought the wisdom of these advisers, a virtual Mount Rushmore of America’s postwar foreign policy establishment. October had been a most unkind month to the president. Polls revealed that public support for the war, and for Johnson, was eroding, and the punishing bombing campaign against North Vietnam was an increasing point of dissent. The demands of his military commanders for more troops seemed insatiable. Johnson had recently, and reluctantly, authorized one final increase, to 525,000 by the end of 1967 (there had been 23,000 American military personnel in Vietnam in December 1964). And the president knew that any additional increment in manpower would require mobilizing the reserves, further exposing the mounting costs of the war. Behind closed doors, Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara was despairing of the war effort. In May he told Johnson plainly the war “is not going well,” and as for the bombing, his international political instincts were sharp: “The picture of the world’s greatest superpower killing or seriously injuring 1,000 noncombatants a week while trying to pound a tiny backward nation into submission on an issue whose merits are hotly disputed is not a pretty one.” And the antiwar movement, once dismissed as a sideshow, was gathering mainstream credibility, and numbers. On Oct. 21, tens of thousands gathered outside the Pentagon in protest, resulting in hundreds of arrests. And it was not just radicals who were turning against the war. Senator Robert Kennedy was now raising his own doubts in public, and one October poll showed him trouncing Johnson in a head-to-head primary race, 52 percent to 32 percent. Advertisement The president needed reassurance. He had called upon the “Wise Men” previously, in the summer of 1965, when final plans were nearing completion to go all-in with ground troops. They urged him then to take decisive action. Faced with another crossroads, Johnson called on the Wise Men once again. These Wise Men, or Wise Old Men, as some White House staff members took to calling them, included former Secretary of State Dean Acheson, one of the principal architects of the post-World War II international order; Douglas Dillon, a former investment banker, ambassador and secretary of the Treasury; Clark Clifford, Harry Truman’s White House counsel; and Henry Cabot Lodge, a former senator from Massachusetts, fresh from a two-year stint as ambassador to South Vietnam. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. The group met at the State Department on Nov. 1, where they were treated to high-level (and upbeat) military and intelligence briefings, which emphasized the progress that had been made since 1965. Assembling the next morning in the Cabinet Room, they were further fortified by an ebullient telegram from the American Embassy in Saigon. Acheson reported to the president that “this is a matter we can and will win” and “we certainly should not get out of Vietnam.” McGeorge Bundy, Johnson’s former national security adviser, quickly seconded Acheson’s comments, adding that pulling out was both “impossible” and “undesirable.” One by one the seasoned diplomats and storied military titans gathered around the table expressed variations of their general agreement with these sentiments. With unanimity on the imperative of the war, the discussion focused on three of the questions posed by Johnson in his opening comments — the merits of negotiations and bombing, and the problem of national unity. On each issue there was broad consensus: Negotiations would be pointless, halting the bombing would be seen as a sign of weakness, and the main problem was not with the war but with widespread public and political misperception about how it was going. Things took a slightly surreal turn when, near the end of the four-hour session, Johnson’s infant grandson was brought into the room and rested in the president’s arms for the balance of the meeting. Beneath this placid veneer, however, troubling rumbles threatened. It should have been obvious that one of the Wise Old Men, Omar Bradley — a World War II commander and the first chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff — was hopelessly out of touch. Back from a recent trip to South Vietnam, he told the group he had “never seen better morale” and marveled that the troops “get ice cream about three times a week.” Averell Harriman, a former governor of New York and the globe-trotting ambassador at large, sent the president a quiet missive the following day dissenting from the notion that negotiations ought not to be pursued. And the meeting ended on a discordant note when, as the participants were filing out, the former undersecretary of state George Ball (a lone voice against the bombing campaign) snapped at his colleagues: “I’ve been watching you across the table. You’re like a flock of buzzards sitting on a fence, sending young men off to be killed. You ought to be ashamed of yourselves.” But neither Ball nor Harriman expressed opposition to the war at the meeting, and a few weeks later Johnson solved his lingering problem with McNamara (whose most recent, deeply pessimistic memo anticipated that nothing the United States could do would “break the will” of the enemy) by dispatching him to the World Bank and replacing him with the steadfast hawk Clark Clifford. As far as the White House and the Wise Men were concerned, the problem was principally one of public relations. Several of the participants urged that the ambassador to South Vietnam, Ellsworth Bunker, and Gen. William Westmoreland be brought home to allay the public’s misconceptions. This was the one productive suggestion that emerged from the Wise Men meeting, and Johnson jumped on it. Westmoreland and Bunker were summoned to Washington to sell the war — or at least the idea that things were going very well indeed — a public relations push that included prominent speeches, appearances on television, and testimony before congressional committees. On Nov. 21, at a speech before the National Press Club, Westmoreland offered the big brass ring: He was “absolutely certain” the United States was winning a war of attrition, and the strength of the Viet Cong was “declining at a steady rate.” The war has “entered a new phase,” he announced, “when the end begins to come into view.” Ten weeks later, American forces were stunned by the Tet offensive, a major coordinated strike across all of South Vietnam, including attacks on 44 of the country’s 50 largest cities — a battle was fought on the grounds of the American Embassy in Saigon. In the first quarter of 1968 the Americans would suffer over 4,700 combat deaths. The offensive failed to achieve its military goals, but it made one thing perfectly clear: The end was not in view. For Robert Kennedy, the events “shattered the mask of official illusion” about the war; the CBS News anchor Walter Cronkite concluded it now seemed certain that “the bloody experience in Vietnam is to end in stalemate.” As Johnson was reeling from these blows, Westmoreland landed another — his urgent request for an additional 206,000 troops. The military commander informed the president that “a setback is fully possible if I am not reinforced and it is likely we will lose ground in other areas.” Taken aback, Johnson asked Clifford to study Westmoreland’s request with “fresh eyes.” Clifford resurfaced after a week of study and briefings. He reported he was now “convinced that the military course we were pursuing was not only endless, but hopeless.” Advertisement Clifford urged the president to reconvene the Wise Men, who on March 25 received new briefings and then talked late into the night. They met with Johnson the following afternoon, assembling for what Clifford would later describe as “an unhappy occasion,” for “there could be no pleasure” in admitting “that their previous advice had been wrong.” McGeorge Bundy, the group’s youngest member, drew the short straw. “Mr. President, there has been a very significant shift in most of our positions since we last met,” he reported. A majority now held the view that “we must begin to take steps to disengage.” Five days later, Johnson stunned the nation with his announcement that he would not seek re-election. Jonathan Kirshner is a professor of government at Cornell University. Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 