Last Friday Netflix dropped the second season of “Stranger Things,” its surprise hit from 2016 that’s part horror story, part buddy comedy, but above all, an addictive homage to the early 1980s. And while the show, which revolves around supernatural goings-on in the fictional town of Hawkins, Ind., nods to everything from “E.T.” to synth-pop, the nostalgic takeaway for many viewers of a certain age is the overwhelming sense of freedom that the four tween protagonists enjoy — camping in the woods, riding bikes along empty streets late at night and generally spending a good amount of their time unprogrammed and unparented. I fall smack in the middle of the Generation X demographic, and I can’t count the number of times my friends and I have complained about how unfree and overly controlled our children’s lives seem. Our parents lamented childhood’s fall from 1950s innocence; we worry that our children aren’t getting to experience the warp and weft of life. We rarely let them out of our sight; would we ever think of letting them roam in the woods? Wait. Have we forgotten what actually happened in the woods? My personal Hawkins was the middle-class railroad town of Billings, Mont. One of the places where we high-schoolers hung out was the “15-mile marker,” far enough away from the city line to gather for beer-soaked bonfires. The Friday night bashes were known to include fistfights, contests to see who could run through the flames slowest, sex in the back of cars, sheriff’s department raids and the stupidest trick of all, races home with drivers who had no business being behind the wheel. Was it fun? Absolutely. Do I regret any of it? Not especially. Do I hope my 7-year-old daughter gets to experience her own “15-mile marker” someday? Not on your life. In the same way that our parents replaced the reality of life in the ’50s with their own private “My Three Sons,” Generation X’s curdled nostalgia ignores basic facts about modern childhood. Monitoring the Future’s annual survey of eighth, 10th and 12th graders found that alcohol and cigarette use by minors is at the lowest levels in the study’s history. Drinking and driving is down 54 percent since 1991, part of a huge drop in the number of teenage auto deaths, some 7,000 kids a year since the early-’80s fatalities peak. And while yes, the opioid epidemic is slithering across all types of American neighborhoods, illicit drug use among teens is still down basically across the board, even for marijuana. Which, it’s worth noting, is not the case for their parents. You know, us. For all the mewling about sexting and porn at our children’s fingertips, the teenage birthrate is down 67 percent from 1991, in part because teens are having considerably less sex than they were in the “Stranger Things” era. Combine that with contraception use being above 90 percent, and naturally, the teenage pregnancy rate is at its lowest level in 80 years. And while it’s hard to wrap our heads around the idea that six hours a day of screen time has no pernicious effects — even though we all wasted days on the Atari 2600 and Nintendo — that was the finding in a study published in Psychiatric Quarterly earlier this year. A quarter of the day online is the new normal, with no ties to increased juvenile delinquency. Idle hands aren’t holding iPhones. What keeps “Stranger Things” from being simply a Gen-X nostalgia trip is its plot, which revolves around a child’s abduction — as much a fear in the early 1980s as it is today. And yet, again, progress has been substantial: Child victims are much more likely to make it home safely than they were even 20 years ago. Overall, violent crime victimization for ages 12 to 19 is nowhere near what it was in 1994, its latest peak. Of course, this isn’t to say there aren’t 21st-century problems kids have to contend with, including their overscheduled, high-anxiety lives — but that’s on their parents, not them. Those of us from the latchkey generation both benefited and suffered from all that time on our own. And in our nostalgic embrace of the “simpler times” of “Stranger Things,” we seem to be willfully ignoring so much of what took place where parental eyes didn’t roam.