Merion Hall, built in 1885, is the oldest dormitory at Bryn Mawr College and home to a ghost named Lillian. I came to college not believing in ghosts, but I was still relieved when I didn’t get assigned to the supposedly haunted room on the third floor. I lived on the second floor, directly below it. According to lore, in 1901 a young student named Lillian believed she was suffering from leprosy. She bathed in kerosene, convinced it would cure her. Whether by accident or intention (as some versions of the story go), she set herself on fire and leapt from her third-story window to her death. Some 100 years later, on a freezing February afternoon during my freshman year, someone dared to hold a séance with a Ouija board in the haunted room. Shortly thereafter, a pipe burst directly above it, flooding and destroying everything inside. Rooms on the second and first floors were also affected, forcing some students to vacate as plaster and water dripped from the ceilings and down the walls. By an odd stroke of luck, my room was spared. As I watched girls rush around shrieking, trying to preserve their belongings, I changed my mind about ghosts. During my freshman year at Ole Miss in 1972, I lived with a few other hippie wannabes in a two-story home that was built before the Civil War. One warm, still evening, as my roommates and I were watching TV in the living room, the front door burst open. In blew a gust of frigid air, followed by a wispy form that flew past us and rushed up the grand staircase. We stared at each other in shock, afraid to move or speak. Someone finally broke the silence and we realized we had all seen something a little different. One roommate described seeing a glowing orb. Another had seen a wispy form like I did. Everyone agreed that somehow, whatever it was, the ghostly form was female. Later I went down to the courthouse in town and talked to some old-timers. Turns out our house had a history. The structure originally had three floors but the top floor was destroyed in a fire. Someone at the newspaper office told me that twin girls had been trapped in a third-floor nursery when the fire broke out. Their mother perished when she ran into the burning house to save them. Several other strange things happened during my stay at the house — heavy footsteps on the back stairs late at night, piano notes played at all hours and intermittent cold spots on the floor — but I never saw anything ghostly come through the front door again. A month into my sophomore year, I started waking up with strange scratches on my side and back. It was odd but I figured I must have been bumping into the radiator beside my bed during the night, so I started lining that wall with pillows. Two weeks later, my boyfriend (now husband) woke up in the middle of the night and swore he saw a friar in a gray robe. By the time my boyfriend got his glasses, the person had vanished from the room. St. Bonaventure University is a Franciscan college, so friars were not an uncommon sight on campus. But they wore brown, not gray. A few days later the topic of campus ghost stories came up in one of my art classes. As soon as I mentioned my story, the professor — who was my adviser and also a friar — perked up and correctly guessed which dorm I lived in. He told me that the campus had once used my residence hall as the friary while a new one was built. He consulted with another friar on campus who was an ordained exorcist and gave me a blessing to say in my room. After I did, the random scratches on my body stopped showing up, and though my boyfriend continued to feel a presence occasionally, it never had a malicious feeling to it. According to legend, a theater professor at my university died in the auditorium that houses the school’s main stage. Apparently, if you stand onstage and look out at the empty seats, you will often find one chair that is open — as if someone is sitting in it, watching the stage. These are chairs that automatically spring closed, but it isn’t a matter of a broken chair or two. The opened chair is almost always a different one. My thespian friends claim they once saw a seat opened in the front row, but when they climbed the stairs to the sound booth, the chair had closed. On the balcony, a previously closed chair had opened. Ghost stories are legion at Kenyon College. My own haunting took place after I left the library around 2 a.m. on an unremarkable night during my freshman year. Kenyon’s campus is arranged on a north-to-south axis along a central walkway called Middle Path. The walkway is gravel and used only by pedestrians, but old photographs confirm the path was a main artery for horses and carriages in the 19th century. The library is in South Campus, which is demarcated from North Campus (where I lived) by an old stone gate that students lovingly refer to as the Gates of Hell — a nod to a 1980s TV psychic who once claimed on “The Phil Donahue Show” that the actual, literal entrance to the underworld was in central Ohio. It was a frosty, silent night in March 2007, and I had a 10-minute walk from the library to my warm, extra-long twin bed. As I walked north along Middle Path, I heard the sound of wheels crunching the gravel. I turned around expecting a bicycle but nothing was there. A few seconds later the sound of a horse exhaling pierced the silence, not more than 30 feet behind me. My knees went weak and I felt lightheaded. But what could I do? I kept walking. The crunching wheels moved in step with me, and every few seconds the horse exhaled. My legs carried me to the Gates of Hell, and as I crossed the threshold, the sounds of the carriage vanished. Now it’s a fond memory: That evening, something from the past walked me home. Many Wellesley students know about the haunted rooms in the Tower Court dorm complex. The rooms of legend no longer house students, but other basement suites in the Tower complex are still in use. I happened to live in one of those during my senior year. My basement hallway, known as “the pit,” was always empty of people: To get down to my hovel, you had to go through a separate industrial back hallway and pass through a small door. But one night, while studying in my room, I heard someone knocking. When I opened my door, I realized that the sound was coming from inside a broom closet at the end of the hallway. I walked over, yanked the closet door open, and an old vacuum tumbled out onto the floor. I shoved it back in and shut the door. But the knocking sound continued from the closet, so I opened it again. Nothing was in there, but the vacuum had moved to the opposite corner of the closet and was sitting neatly upright. I felt a cold flash of fear and backed out of the hallway into the adjacent laundry room. All of a sudden, one of the washing machines turned on and started whirring. I stood there frozen and terrified. It’s hard enough to get those machines to run even after putting money in them. With my back to the wall, I inched out of the laundry room and the machine fell silent. At that point, I sprinted full speed to my room, dove under the covers of my bed and didn’t come out until morning. During my first two years at St. Olaf College, I wrote for the campus newspaper, The Manitou Messenger. For our Halloween issue, I wanted to write about Thorson Hall, a majestic, Gothic-looking dormitory where students claimed to have seen a ghostly boy in a red baseball cap. I approached my interviews with skepticism: I was just looking for a story. But my meeting with two seniors who had lived in Thorson Hall two years before changed my perspective. Their first encounter took place while one of the women was studying at her desk late one night. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw someone in a red cap walk silently through the room. She got up and checked the door and the closet, waking her sleeping roommate in the process, but no one was there. The second roommate told me that one night she was sleeping alone in the room when she awoke to the sight of a young man in a red cap sitting at the foot of her bed. She screamed and covered her face with her blanket. When she looked again, he was gone. She fled the room, but friends standing in the hallway swore they hadn’t seen anyone leave. The girls tore the room apart to be sure no one was hiding in there. Sometimes, the roommates would see the young man out of the corner of their eyes. Other times he stood in plain sight. They tried to switch dorms, but open rooms were scarce. By the end of the interview, both women had cried. They were visibly shaken. I then talked with the head resident of Thorson Hall, who told me about a time over the holiday break when no one was in the dorm but her. She came out of the shower and saw a young man in a red cap standing in front of her. She screamed and grabbed her towel, but when she looked again he was gone. She had security check every room in the dorm, thinking someone had gotten in, but no doors or windows were ajar. No one was found in the building. My sophomore year, I lived in a single on the fourth floor of Pound Hall, a high-rise dorm. Soon after settling in, I realized I wasn’t alone. One night, I heard a soft thud in my closet. A prayer rug that I’d brought from my childhood home had fallen from the closet’s shelf to the floor. I put it back. But the rug kept falling, and so did several coats and shirts. One morning in early autumn, I opened the door to see everything I’d hung in the closet in a messy pile. I returned my clothes to their hangers, but within a few days I found the closet door open and everything heaped on the floor again. Late at night, when I’d be finishing homework, I could hear knocks at the window, followed by a female disembodied voice. It sounded like she was talking on the phone, or reading aloud. But my hall was inhabited only by men. I’d look out my window to see if these were the voices of students congregating on the sidewalk below. No one was ever there. I had a guest one weekend. We were drifting off to sleep when we simultaneously awoke with a jolt. A tall, shadowy figure was peering down at us. We screamed and fled. My friend refused to set foot in my room again. After this incident, I researched campus ghosts and found the story of a woman named Lucy who lived in a fifth-floor room in Pound Hall. According to lore, she jumped from a window in the dorm to her death in the 1960s. Some say she was depressed, others say she was experimenting with drugs. The university plans to demolish Pound Hall this December. If Lucy still lingers there, she’ll need to relocate.