In the 1990s, my father bought me a Houston Astros cap. That was during one of the team’s rough patches, a set of years bookended by playoff losses. I’ve worn it religiously ever since. Nowadays it’s faded, the star across the brim is hardly visible, the Velcro above the neck is so busted that it’s always on the verge of jumping off the back of my head. But over the past few decades, from the sprawl of the suburbs to the train tracks lining the East End, it has served as my passport to the city. After the massive destruction of Hurricane Harvey, the Astros were the team we had pinned our hopes on. Every victory they pulled off gave us a momentary reprieve. We took comfort in the little star on their caps when we found ourselves at a loss for words, wondering how our homes ended up halfway under water. But the team’s very first World Series win, after a seven-game series, after losing only a few games at home since the storm, has given the country another glimpse of our city. Grit and struggle and resilience, sure, but a particular brand of Houston scrappiness, too. And after a campaign that began, depending on the depth of your allegiance, 56 seasons, seven months, 66 innings or a couple of nights ago, the Astros have rallied for the community. Consider the cinematics: After seven games of trial and error, of spontaneous fireworks and hyperbolic home runs, the championship came down to a cleareyed, stoic finale. But while Astros pride in some neighborhoods was expected, it felt entirely new in others. Friends of mine who couldn’t have sketched a baseball diamond a few months back — and wouldn’t have cared at all if you had pointed that out — regaled me with pitching patterns and the merits of one lineup shift or another. One day, I saw someone with a haircut that incorporated the team’s star, and then a fifth and then a sixth such haircut as the season progressed. In block after block, people hosted impromptu tailgates on their lawns. I found Astro mementos in haunts where I had never seen them before, posters of the roster in barbershops and bobble heads of players by registers at taquerias. Just before the series began, an ex hit me up to see if I had the old jersey he had given me on loan years ago. When I told him it was still around, he sighed in relief. He was glad, he said, because this was the time to wear it; but he wouldn’t begrudge me if I had sold it, either. You couldn’t find them anymore. The season forged ties among communities that otherwise would’ve left one another alone. Because in this country, there’s no certainty that you’ll fall in love with the game; economics, geography and cultural gate-keeping serve as barriers for many people. But then a championship series comes along, and just for a moment, it grabs you and everyone you know. That’s why, on the night of the final game, even though it was hosted by Los Angeles, over 17,000 Astros fans filled Minute Maid Park. Halfway across the country, Houstonians found themselves in the thick of it. You can’t help wondering how many of us became lifelong fans because of this series. It would be careless to say that the win will change much for people still devastated by the storm. The season has ended, and they’ll go back to their lives. But it’s rare that anyone gets to see a magical thing, let alone an entire city, and let alone for the very first time. Maybe some kids watching in Cypress will tell their kids about José Altuve’s final volley. Maybe an amateur league on the North Side will finally set up bases in the parks throughout the sprawl. Maybe some newfound fans were able to get jerseys for the series, mementos that they’ll keep in their families for generations. Maybe they’ll only bring them to work next week. Or maybe they’ll sell them in a month or two. But I’ll keep my cap until the star falls off. Until the magic it conjures among residents of the city begins to fizzle out, and probably a little while after that. I never want to forget how that connection feels. “Los Astros” took hope onto the field, and they gave it back to us.