Following the tragic events in Las Vegas last month, as the gun debate reached new heights of intensity, I joined the fray. Though in favor of increased gun control, I spoke out on Twitter in support of transgender people being able to arm ourselves in self-defense — because, I felt, our newly heightened levels of visibility have led to increased levels of violence against us. One of my tweets took off. What resulted was a multiday, multi-pronged onslaught of harassment from not only gun-control activists but groups who target transgender people. Ultimately, after days of doing nothing while other users hurled slurs and made threats, Twitter finally took action: It suspended me for 12 hours after I said one of those users was “garbage” for trying to incite further harassment. If this was an isolated incident, this could be written off as a mistake. But it isn’t just that Twitter makes it easy for users to abuse certain targets with impunity. Pushing back — as the actress Rose McGowan found just days after I did — routinely invites suspensions from the Twitter safety team. This pattern of harassment followed by punishment is particularly acute for transgender users, who are often targets for abuse and for whom the abuse can have serious consequences. During own my particular experience of Twitter harassment, I tried, in good faith, to use the tools the platform makes available to its users to stop abuse. When someone crossed the line into what I considered abuse — calling me, for instance, a “tranny” or “mentally ill” — I would report the tweets in question. Each time, Twitter ruled they’d violated no rules — each time with no further explanation provided. So, I would block them. But these accounts would respond by creating numerous secondary accounts, to circumvent the blocking in order to harass me again. When blocking failed, I resorted to pushing back — upon which Twitter suspended me. The suspension notice cited the offensive tweets in question: They were part of a conversation that involved multiple users, including one with a prestige-conferring “blue checkmark” — the colloquial term for a verified account. To even begin my 12 hour sentence, I had to agree to delete them. Twitter’s exact processes for handling abuse reports are a secret, but the company announced earlier this year that many of them are handled algorithmically — servers with not-so-carefully calibrated formulae analyze the reports for signs of harassment. Profanity is treated more seriously than slurs and threats — the mere presence of vulgarity in a reply is often enough, especially when blue checkmarks are involved. (One of the tweets the service flagged when I was suspended, for instance, contained a curse word, though it wasn’t directed at my harasser.) Mass reporting tweets in bad faith, a common tactic of Twitter harassers, is often enough to get a user blocked. The company has said it’s aware of many of these problems: that automatically flagging curse words is too ham-handed, and that users intent on abusing others can create new accounts too easily. It has also said it’s taken steps to correct them; whatever those efforts have been, however, they weren’t enough to help me. The result of all this is a dangerous power imbalance — it’s often the harassed who pushed back, not the harassers, who find their tweets deleted and their accounts suspended. This imbalance affects the trans community disproportionately: Transgender users who are active on Twitter are often targeted by everyone from social conservatives to so-called feminists espousing transphobic views in the name of “protecting” cisgender women. The well-known transgender activist Laurelai Bailey had her verified account permanently shuttered; almost every day, a trans person I know is hit with at least a temporary suspension. While harassers create extra accounts to circumvent blocks, many of the regularly harassed keep a backup in store simply as an insurance policy against Twitter’s unequal treatment. (Ms. Bailey, in fact, had one prepared, and has begun using that instead.) The consequences of both harassment and account suspensions for transgender users can be disproportionate, too. Online harassment is associated with increased risk of depression, anxiety and suicide. The impact of gender dysphoria alone on one’s mental health is severe, and many transgender people struggle to find acceptance and understanding from family and peers. For many trans people, social media is an essential avenue of support; coping when this source of support turns toxic is bad enough, but it is made worse when their accounts are suspended, cutting users off from those who have come to seem like family — even more so when real families aren’t supportive. There are those who may say that trans users who have been subjected to harassment should forgo using Twitter. But beyond the loss of a support system, logging off denies trans people — and many of the other marginalized groups regularly subjected to abuse online — the ability to safely voice our opinions in a culturally significant place. The backlash against Ms. McGowan’s suspension prompted Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s co-founder and C.E.O., to tweet on the subject. Worryingly, though, his response seemed evasive and defensive. Though promising better enforcement, he claimed Twitter “prioritized this in 2016” and in “2017 we made it our top priority and made a lot of progress.” With all of this supposed progress and few results to show for it, many are rightly skeptical conditions will improve. We will make our voices heard, no matter how much people try to silence us. But the question now is simple: Does Twitter want to be remembered as a company that protected the safety of those most vulnerable? Or helped put them in harm’s way?