This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. First, there is a simple reason that congressional Republicans have had so much trouble coming up with a tax bill: Their top priorities are cutting taxes for the wealthy and for corporations — and neither idea is popular. CBS News released a new poll yesterday, consistent with other recent polls, that showed a majority of Americans wants taxes on the rich and on big companies to rise. Yet congressional leaders are trying to write a bill that cuts those taxes enormously. So they’ve got a political problem, especially because they also plan to raise some taxes on the middle class and poor to hold down the bill’s price tag. Nonetheless, top Republicans have vowed to release a bill today. Once they do, look for them and President Trump to start selling it, less than honestly, as a middle-class tax cut. In truth, it is built around deeply cutting corporate taxes and repealing the estate tax. Bring on the robots. Human beings generally like to be in control or to hand over control to a trained professional, as I wrote last week in a column about driverless cars. We often prefer human control to computer control even when human control leads to worse outcomes. The past week has brought an especially stark example: the World Series. If you’re not a sports fan, please stick with me for a moment anyway. As Richard Thaler, the latest Nobel laureate in economics, likes to say, sports offers an unusually good window on human behavior, because it lets us watch decisions and outcomes as they happen. At an important point in Tuesday night’s sixth game between the Astros and Dodgers, the home-plate umpire made a call that television cameras showed clearly to be wrong. He called a strike on an Astros hitter, Evan Gattis, despite the observable fact that the pitch did not travel over the plate. The umpire made a mistake, as all human beings sometimes do. My question — a question with implications well beyond sports — is why we accept such mistakes. There is a solution to them, after all. Major League Baseball could use cameras and computers to call balls and strikes, much as tennis, track, swimming and many other sports use them. Yes, there would be details to figure out and some bumps during the transition, but the problems are solvable. Here is the baseball writer Joe Sheehan, who writes a newsletter I highly recommend, on the matter: The umpire’s job “was created in the 1880s, and the development of the human arm has vastly exceeded the development of the human eye. Discerning the position of a 5 1/4-inch sphere moving in multiple directions at 95 mph relative to an imaginary box isn’t something we’ve evolved to do.” Sheehan notes that this graphic, from the website Brooks Baseball, shows just how many mistakes the home-plate umpire made on Sunday night, in the fifth game. “Human eyes can’t do what we’re asking them to do,” he writes. “We need to do better. The technology doesn’t have to be perfect; it just has to be better.” I know the most common rejoinder to this argument, and I imagine that some readers agree with it — namely, that “the human element,” even if it’s flawed, is part of the game. But the flawed human beings I’d rather have deciding the game are the players. Can you imagine if we still allowed an Olympic swimming race or 100-meter dash to be decided by the limits of human vision and decision-making? In the years ahead, I hope we can grow more comfortable with computer-aided decision-making — not only for the calling of balls and strikes, but for vehicle-crash avoidance, medical diagnosis, education and many other realms. Meanwhile, congratulations to Houston Astros fans. Their title drought — 55 seasons, before last night — never received as much national attention as Chicago’s or Boston’s. But it was a long, misery-filled wait, with many close calls along the way. Now it’s over. New York, New York. “We heard what sounded like a crash and what might have been a gunshot,” writes Bret Stephens, about Tuesday’s attack in New York, “but it didn’t register at first.”