This week, Yu Darvish, the Los Angeles Dodger pitcher who is half Japanese, said he was trying to “stay positive” after a star player for the Houston Astros, Yuli Gurriel, mocked him with a racist slur and slant-eyes gesture during Game 3 of the World Series. Dodger fans were not so forgiving. When Gurriel came to the plate in Game 6, the Dodger pitcher, Rich Hill, paused long enough before delivering his first pitch so that Los Angeles fans could unleash an extra-long cascade of jeering and cursing at Gurriel. The crowd was every bit as vociferous in Game 7 when Gurriel came up against Darvish again — even after Gurriel tipped his hat in a conciliatory gesture to the pitcher. I’m not big on baseball, but I became a Dodgers fan this week, and I think a lot of Asians and Asian-Americans joined me. We were disgusted by Gurriel’s ugly behavior and winced in unison as Darvish took a drubbing from the Astros in Game 7. (The Astros won the game and the series.) But our dismay runs deeper: Many Asian people are upset about the slick and spineless handling of the incident by the commissioner of Major League Baseball, Rob Manfred. Let me take you back to a Catholic-school classroom in central New Jersey in the 1960s where I’m sitting at my desk, my face aflame. A student has just turned around and made the dreaded gesture again: “Chineeese!” he says, pulling back his eyes, grinning, leering and causing a ripple of laughter the nuns never seem to mind. As the lone Chinese student in the class — my siblings and I were the only Chinese in the school — I experienced this many times. This is not to say I didn’t have friends or join in kickball games or share the occasional cookie from my “Beverly Hillbillies” lunch box with a classmate. But now and then someone would confront me on the playground, pull back their eyes and remind me that I was still, to them, some kind of freak, a foreigner, a joke. Which brings me to what happened to Gurriel after cameras caught him not only making the slant-eye gesture in the dugout, after he hit a home run off Darvish, but also uttering a slur: “Chinito,” or “little Chinese boy.” It’s the equivalent of the N-word, and the Cuban-born slugger knew it. “In Cuba we call everybody who’s from Asia ‘China,’ ” Gurriel said afterward through a translator. “I know it is offensive to them and they don’t like that.” So what was his punishment? Sensitivity training and a five-game suspension that starts next season, which allowed the Astros star to stay in the lineup for all seven games. This is not what has happened to other players caught uttering slurs — many have been immediately suspended. Manfred’s carefully devised response had a rationale: The World Series is different. This was not the time to penalize the whole team. And besides, Darvish had graciously said, “No one is perfect” and “Let’s move forward.” Sports columnists praised Manfred for increasing the fine but delaying the punishment. “Authoritative and pragmatic” is how ESPN’s Jerry Crasnick described the decision. “The sanctity of the World Series stayed intact,” said USA Today’s Bob Nightengale. “A stunning episode of civility,” the Washington Post’s Thomas Boswell declared. Forgive me, but I wasn’t feeling so civil about it. Manfred missed a chance to send an unequivocal message that America’s pastime will have nothing to do with racism. He should have suspended Gurriel for one postseason game, taken the heat and been done with it. Yes, it would have hurt the whole team. That is the point. The message sent to Asian-Americans was: Your humanity doesn’t quite make the cut. Alter the course of a World Series for this? For them? “I didn’t try to offend anybody,” Gurriel said — a phrase favored by offensive people through the ages. It’s been half a century since my classmates did the slant-eyes thing, talked in gibberish to make fun of Chinese speakers or sang this obnoxious little ditty, which my sister recalls to this day: “Mother Chinese (corners up), father Japanese (corners down), daughter cuckoo (one of each).” Until recently I’d have said we were well past all that blatant stuff. Back in the day in rural New Jersey there were so few Asian people that my father would cross a room to greet one. (“Hey, a countryman!”) Now Asians are everywhere. So it was a bit of a shock to be confronted recently by some young white children in a supermarket parking lot in Baltimore. They were up in my face, doing the old ching-chang-charlie gibberish. It didn’t upset me so much as startle me; it was like seeing a ghost. The Gurriel incident, though, made the schoolyard tears spring to my eyes. Maybe because it had such high-level validation from the sports and media worlds. And maybe because even friends found it innocuous. “It’s part of that whole political correctness thing,” one said. My heart sank. “I went through this! People did this to me!” I replied, tears welling. Trying to sympathize, he said, “They’re just pushing your buttons.” But really, I’m glad, in this world full of hate, bias and privilege, that my buttons can still be pushed. I know what it feels like to be other-ized. Sometimes we need to tap into that wounded 7-year-old inside of us.