On Wednesday, giddy at the prospect of the Dodgers’ bringing Los Angeles its first World Series championship since 1988, I was thinking about how Los Angeles sports teams are having a moment right now. But then the Dodgers went and lost. Still, Los Angeles sports teams are having a moment right now, because there are suddenly so many of them: in baseball, the Dodgers; in the N.B.A., the Lakers and Clippers; in the N.H.L., the Kings; in the N.F.L., the Rams and Chargers; and in M.L.S., the Galaxy and, in 2018, the L.A.F.C. And let’s not forget horse racing at Santa Anita. My family has lived in Los Angeles for five generations. My fandom was not a choice. Since tickets to Laker games have never been affordable for middle-class families in my lifetime, the Dodgers have always been my Los Angeles team. The last time the Dodgers won the World Series, in 1988, I had just turned 7 years old. And for my entire adult life I was convinced I remembered watching Kirk Gibson limp around the bases from my grandmother’s living room. But Wednesday night, from a nosebleed seat next to me at Dodger Stadium during Game 7, my mother informed me that I was at home asleep in my trundle bed nestled between the Care Bears she sewed me, when Gibson, Orel Hershiser and Tommy Lasorda slew Mark McGwire, Jose Canseco and the rest of the heavily favored Oakland A’s and sprayed one another with Champagne. Of course I was asleep. Every major sporting event ends long after a child’s bedtime. I should have been so lucky this year. During the fifth inning, when it became clear the Dodgers would not rally from their 5-0 deficit to defeat the Houston Astros, I allowed myself the fantasy of trading places with my 7-year-old self. I plucked her out of her bed and plopped her down in front of the TV to watch Hershiser record those final outs 29 years ago, hugged her and whispered, “It is very important you see this at least once in your life” in her ear. Then, present-day me crawled into her twin bed and snuggled with Tenderheart and Love-A-Lot, blissful and unaware of the Dodgers’ Game 7 dirt nap. Is it better to have won, then lost, than to never have won at all? The Dodgers have won the National League West five straight seasons, only to be eliminated in crushing fashion from the playoffs. Would it have been better to tank with 100-loss seasons for years, like the Astros from 2011 to 2013, to build up a superteam that wins it all? Or how about the Dodgers’ rival, the San Francisco Giants, who have been to the playoffs only four times in the past decade but won championships in three of those years? This season, the Giants finished 40 games behind the Dodgers. Their fans spent Wednesday night celebrating as if they had won the World Series, because the Dodgers did not. Sports are terrible, and baseball is the worst of all. It is designed to break your heart; this week it broke mine. I cannot fault the adults in charge of raising me for failing to wake me up to see what might have wound up being the last Dodgers World Series championship. This wasn’t a Red Sox exorcism or a once-in-a-century Cubs triumph. It was the second time the Dodgers had won it in my lifetime; the first happened the month after I was born. The Lakers won four championships in my first seven years on earth, and the first Olympics of my lifetime were held in my home city when I was 2. I was alive and running around with ribbons in my long blond hair and mud on my knees and elbows during the ’80s golden era of Los Angeles sports. I wasn’t old enough to appreciate any of it. It’s very possible we are headed toward a second golden era. Besides the fact that I won’t have to endure watching the Dodgers shake hands with Donald Trump at the White House, I can find the smallest silver lining that after decades of falling short of the Fall Classic, this year’s team actually made the World Series, which is farther than they advanced when I wrote a book about the two seasons I thought they would win it all. It was no fluke. Las Vegas sports books give them the best odds to win next year. More teams in Los Angeles mean more chances to turn Tinseltown back into Title Town. Things are certainly looking up in Lakerland. After four horrendous seasons, the Lakers finally have a front office that seems to know what it’s doing. That brain trust drafted the young point guard superstar Lonzo Ball in the first round, and his ability has so far eclipsed the baggage wrought by his stage-parent father. They might not win for a while, but the kid has made them watchable again. The local band of ice hockey professionals, the Los Angeles Kings, have won two Stanley Cup titles since 2012, despite the fact that it has not snowed in downtown Los Angeles since 1962. The season is young, but at 10-2, they’re off to one of the best starts in the N.H.L. The Rams (5-2) moved back here from St. Louis last year, and against all odds, they are good. (The Chargers moved up from San Diego before the start of this season, but I don’t know anyone in Los Angeles who cares about them, so I can’t vouch.) Los Angeles’s biggest selling point is its Mediterranean climate. For that reason I’ve never understood why “fair-weather fan” is used as a pejorative. I’ve been a Rams fan for a year, and I’m all in. If they win a Super Bowl at some point, I’ll drink and high-five strangers in bars. If they lose, I’ll get on with my life five minutes later. Isn’t that what fandom should be — all upside, no anguish? Detachment sounds ideal to this crushed Dodger fan. But ask me again in three months when spring training starts.