This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox. Happy Election Day. Here are a few things to watch: Virginia. The close governor’s race will get most of the attention tonight, but the state’s legislative races will probably provide a better sign of the national political environment, as David Wasserman explains for NBC News. Why? The governor’s race is driven partly by personality. The legislative races are less so. As Wasserman writes: “how many seats Democrats gain on Tuesday could tell us whether they are on track to win the House in 2018.” He suggests paying particular attention to 10 seats that are currently held by Republicans in districts won by Hillary Clinton. Two of those 10 do involve fascinating personalities, including a transgender Democratic candidate whose opponent won’t acknowledge her as a woman, and a former news anchor who was inspired to enter politics by the fatal shooting of his girlfriend. So far this year, as I’ve noted in this newsletter before, Democrats have fared very well in special elections — flipping statehouse seats around the country. But special elections tend to have low turnout. Today’s Virginia races offer a better test. Maine. Obamacare will effectively be on the ballot, with voters deciding whether to expand Medicaid. Maine is one of only 19 states that didn’t expand the program under Obamacare, after the Supreme Court made expansion optional. The state’s Republican governor has repeatedly vetoed expansion. A “yes” vote on the ballot initiative would “make Maine’s health care system more reliable and secure for everyone,” argues the editorial board of The Portland Press Herald. “It will extend access to preventive care and treatment for people who can’t now afford it. And it will save lives.” Passage would also break new ground, making Maine the first state to expand Medicaid by popular referendum. “That could encourage other nonexpansion states to take the same route,” writes Vox’s Sarah Kliff. Ohio. The state will vote on an initiative intended to lower drug prices. As popular as that idea may sound, a similar measure failed in California in 2016. Kaiser Health News says many Ohioans are confused by the dueling campaign ads. New York. The big initiative in New York state — Proposal 1 — would authorize a state constitutional convention if it passed. Josh Barro of Business Insider urges a “yes” vote: “New Yorkers — residents and officials — talk a lot about our state government being structurally broken, but nobody ever does anything about it.” The Times editorial board takes the opposing view.