HOUSTON — I’m already feeling sorry for Johnnie Clay Langendorff, who is probably well on his way to a dinner invitation at the Trump White House for driving the car that chased Devin Patrick Kelley out of Sutherland Springs, with an armed sidekick literally riding shotgun. I’ve already caught him on several broadcasts, with the word “hero” running on the banner below the video of Mr. Langendorff respectfully “yes ma’aming” and “no sir-ing” the confounded reporters. I suspect it’s only a matter of time before the N.R.A. tries to give the kid in the cowboy hat and starched denim shirt whatever award it already has or is currently cooking up for valor under fire. There will, no doubt, be references to the “long, tall Texan,” his drawl and his style. That bull skull tattoo with the horns curling under his jawline? Central casting could not have done better. Similar accolades will no doubt be lavished on Stephen Willeford, who jumped into Mr. Langendorff’s truck and was, possibly, ready to take Mr. Kelley out while they were giving chase. Mr. Willeford had already used his weapon to take a crack at the gunman fleeing the First Baptist Church, and once he hitched a ride with Mr. Langendorff, he kept a bead on Mr. Kelley until the law finally arrived. We will never know whether Mr. Willeford would have had to fire or not, or would have killed Mr. Kelley or not, because Mr. Kelley killed himself somewhere between the church and the ditch he ran his car into. At least, some of us will never know. President Trump seemed to have an answer: “Fortunately somebody else had a gun that was shooting in the opposite direction, otherwise it wouldn’t have been as bad as it was, it would have been much worse.” And there was our state attorney general, Ken Paxton, crowing about Texas’ open carry law, which allows anyone to hang out just about anywhere with a gun on their hip. Mr. Paxton put it this way: “And so if it’s a place where somebody has the ability to carry, there’s always the opportunity that gunman will be taken out before he has the opportunity to kill very many people.” So of course it stands to reason that the heroes who get that opportunity are Texans. What a boon for the pro-gun forces! I can imagine these two on Fox News now, assuming they don’t turn out to be in favor of something crazy like an assault weapons ban. But we know what will happen next: Mr. Langendorff and Mr. Willeford will have their 15 minutes of fame, and then we will move on to the next mass shooting in another state where any number of people will die because no one can be bothered to go up against the N.R.A. But before the two men get exploited for their bravery — and before I get pilloried for politicizing a disaster — I would like to say that there is nothing particularly Texan about a mass killing these days. People moved heaven and earth to help last week in New York, and before that in Las Vegas. Also, Mr. Kelley had the kind of profile we are all coming to realize is common to mass shooters all over the United States: a white male, the angry loner, the spouse abuser, the animal torturer. A man who couldn’t hold down a job, a man who may or may not have been certifiably mentally ill but who was clearly mad at the world. It’s probably worth pointing out again — though I don’t expect it to change anything — that 26 people, half of them children, were killed before help arrived. But there is one way that Texas is like the Trump administration: Our state government is also in the pocket of the N.R.A. and so has some of the worst pro-gun laws in the United States. It is thanks to the government of Texas that we have not only the open carry law — take your pistol to the grocery store! — as well as a law allowing guns on college campuses. (This was sold as the “campus protection bill.”) Anti-gun groups fought back valiantly against the pro-gun activists in the last session, but one of the most depressing failures of that session was the lowering of handgun carry fees from $140 to $40, now the cheapest in the nation. (This was spun as “license-to-carry fee reform,” in much the same way that abortion opponents have spun draconian anti-choice laws here as female protection ordinances.) I’m sure that it’s a coincidence that the N.R.A. is a major backer of our governor (who joked about shooting reporters), our lieutenant governor and our attorney general, the one who thinks it’s perfectly normal to carry a gun in church. “At least arming some of the parishioners or the congregation so that they can respond, if something, when something, like this happens again,” Mr. Paxton said. I wish I could have been surprised that he changed “if” to “when.”