Not far from where I grew up, on the east coast of the United Kingdom, the town of Felixstowe (population 23,000) sits beside the largest container port in the country. As a child it always seemed as if these two places were worlds apart — the sleepy seaside town and the sleepless port. My neighbor at the time was a retired sea captain, and he took me to visit the Seafarers Centre when I was a teenager. Going inside the docks felt like going into the future, a humanless landscape with machinery working day and night as if by clockwork. And there was this little unassuming building in the middle of all the containers — the Seafarers Centre. I realized later that this little nook, (something between a souvenir gift shop and an internet cafe) would be the only impression the seafarers would get of the United Kingdom. They usually stay inside the port boundaries while on their shore leave, either for visa reasons or because their stopover is so brief. Inside it felt like the waiting room of an airport — a place that is anywhere and nowhere in particular. Later, I became very interested in the workings of the shipping industry, and the experience of the seafarers themselves. As they travel the world, often to places where it would be difficult for them to get visas to enter otherwise, how much of it do they see? As popular movements in the United Kingdom and the United States started to resist globalization, I was drawn to tell a story about the machinery of global trade, and the lives of some of the people caught up in the middle of it. I have always found it surprising that seaside towns in the United Kingdom tend to be the most inward-looking when it comes to immigration. Felixstowe is no exception. Despite its economic dependence on the port, a giant of international trade, its surrounding county, Suffolk, has seen a surge in immigration in recent years. And it voted for Brexit. I felt that with this film I would be able to tell the story of a certain disconnect between the seafarers and the places they are going to (or passing through), like Felixstowe. The international shipping trade depends entirely on these guys, but they have very few rights and freedoms in the places they stop at during their long journeys working far from home. It is thanks to the Seafarers association and its volunteers, which run the center, that they have anywhere to go at all.