Last winter, a Detroit woman seeking financial stability walked into a local job-readiness center, supported by a national community development nonprofit called LISC. She enrolled in an eight-week job-preparedness program that taught her the skills needed to land an apprenticeship in the building trades. Seven months, four certifications and a union card later, the woman, Tiffany, is working full-time — with benefits — as a millwright apprentice, installing and repairing factory machinery. She finds the work fulfilling and is up for a raise in a few months. The need to help people like Tiffany, who did not want her last name used, will grow only more acute: Job dislocation and wage pressure caused by rapid technological development and globalization are likely to persist for a long time. These forces can contribute powerfully to productivity and growth, but they have worsened problems in our economy, from stagnant wages to the lack of opportunities for those with less education. Too many people lack access to entry-level jobs with good wages, especially in industries like manufacturing, where activity is actually near a high. The reason is that technology has enabled this work to be done by far fewer employees — or it’s not being done at all, because workers don’t have the specialized skills certain jobs demand. That’s where a robust federal jobs program could help. Millions of Americans could work in high-need areas rebuilding and repairing crumbling roads and bridges or taking care of the elderly. The jobs should pay a living wage (even during the training phase), come with good benefits and be widely available, including to the formerly incarcerated. The program could include both public jobs and subsidized private employment, either temporary or longer-term. The jobs would provide credentials and hard and soft skills through on-the-job training, which could then facilitate a transition into unsubsidized private-sector employment. We should also invest in more vocational training and apprenticeships, like the one Tiffany landed. Though public jobs programs are associated with Democrats, Kevin Hassett, chairman of the Trump administration’s Council of Economic Advisers, recently backed the idea, creating the possibility of bipartisan support. Public employment should be viewed not as a social program but as a public investment with a high rate of return. The return is increased economic output, coupled with the development of human capital — which increases productivity and the size of the effective labor force — in a population and economy that badly need it. That human capital, in turn, could catalyze more business investment and activity in low-income neighborhoods, which would further promote economic growth. But instead of embracing a large-scale federal jobs program, some people — especially in Silicon Valley — have rallied behind a different policy response to job and wage pressures created by artificial intelligence, robotics and other forces: the universal basic income. The basic income would provide a sizable government payment, meant to support a minimum standard of living, to every American regardless of economic status. Instead of helping Tiffany find work as a millwright, the government would just write her a check. The universal basic income wouldn’t help people upgrade skills and be more successful in the labor market, or generate useful economic output, or give them the sense of purpose and dignity that comes from work. Public employment, however, would provide these social and economic benefits — and a paycheck. People like Tiffany want to be productive members of the work force and have opportunities for advancement. The basic income is defeatist — the solution to our jobs problem is not to give up on equipping workers with the skills they need for a changing economy. Instead, a federal jobs program would provide people with work that is both personally meaningful and economically beneficial. And there’s also the issue of the basic income’s huge cost. The poverty expert Robert Greenstein has shown that the universal basic income would carry an annual cost in the trillions of dollars. Given our country’s fiscal conditions, the jobs program should be paid for — and not with fanciful growth claims some use to justify tax cuts. I’m convinced that a program of this nature would have multiple beneficial effects for our economy that would far outweigh its cost, including strengthening our tattered social fabric. If we don’t put in place a constructive response to wage and job pressures, we could face ever-greater difficulty attracting public support for sound economic policy. While we pursue public employment, we must also help those who can’t work because of health or family circumstances, by, for example, extending the child-tax credit to the poorest children. And we should protect other programs that support low-income people or prepare them for the work force, such as Medicaid, food stamps, job training, child care and the earned-income tax credit. The federal jobs program I’ve described doesn’t have the intuitive simplicity of the universal basic income. But it serves critical purposes that the basic income doesn’t and should be an integral part of a broad-based agenda to address rapidly changing economic conditions. Adopting a federal jobs program could enhance our work force and increase our nation’s output while providing people with the self-worth and economic opportunity that work can provide.