The new series centers on Beth, a thirtysomething woman struggling to balance her work and dating lives while finding a new show or movie to enjoy. Her first choice, “The Devil Wears Prada,” is never available, and although she has the money, she won’t rent it on Amazon. In this pilot episode, Beth must choose between “Iron Lady,” the Margaret Thatcher biopic, or her old standby, “Bridget Jones’s Diary.” She hopes a strong female protagonist will inspire her to leave her day job. After reading Rotten Tomatoes reviews for “Iron Lady,” Beth realizes it’s already 11 p.m., and that’s too late for a biographical drama. Beth watches “Bridget Jones” and falls asleep with her glasses on. Beth must scroll past recommendations for “Mean Girls 2” and “Picture Perfect,” despite having zero interest in these movies. Things escalate when her screen freezes because it can’t keep up with her rapid scrolling. Beth is put to the test when she tries to find “feel good” movies, but her ex Josh’s favorite show ruins her algorithm. Beth considers watching a Werner Herzog documentary but succumbs to looking at Josh’s Facebook profile, wondering who is this girl Annie posting “Twin Peaks” fan theories on his wall. Beth has already watched every single episode of every season of “New Girl,” but it’s something to have on in the background while she tweezes her nose hairs. Beth watches “New Girl” and examines Annie’s Instagram. She wonders how Annie manages to do a french braid without her arms getting sore. Beth’s performance at work starts to suffer. She hasn’t been on a date in months. The fisherman pants she wears around the apartment have disintegrated in the crotch. It’s true that meth and cancer aren’t “feel good,” but maybe all of her problems would change if she’d just watch “Breaking Bad.” She would like prestige television and hoppy beer and tweet things like “Everyone should have health care!”; she’d actually march in a Women’s March instead of just liking people’s photos from it; and at work meetings she’d sit at the head of the table instead of hiding behind the garbage bin. She’d be a real woman! Beth forgets about all her problems when she gets hooked on the reality show “Baking With Murderers” and watches all six seasons and the bonus interviews with the murderers. Meanwhile, Josh keeps texting her to please stop using his mom’s password to their shared Netflix account.  Related titles: “Insane Women of Instagram”; “Lovable Women Who Don’t Leave the Couch”; “Mean Girls 2”; “Picture Perfect.”  JiJi Lee is a comedian and writer in New York.