When I was 21, I did my first comedy festival — sort of. I was performing for only five people. I wasn’t getting paid. But I had a badge that said “artist” on it, and just being near all of these people I had admired for so long made me feel important, like a “real” comedian. At the after party, I ran into one of the producers of the festival, a man in his early 30s. “Thank you so much for putting me on the festival!” I said to him, maybe a bit over-excited. “I just saw your roommate’s set about his breakup. I feel so bad for him.” “Oh, good!” he replied — and then asked if I would sleep with his friend. In a split second, I had been transformed from real comedian into groupie. When I said no thanks, he walked away. Often for male comedians, women are seen as part of the reward for success. Most were not exactly studs in their developing years and are thrilled that sex is part of what comes along with being recognized for the talents they are. Fair enough. But where does that leave us, their female peers and colleagues? (We now know where it leaves at least some of them: cringing in horror and uncertain how to proceed while a certain red-haired comedian gets naked in front of them.) My first approach to navigating this world was to try to desexualize myself — to be one of the guys, or if not quite that, at least something like a little sister. I didn’t want to be seen as a “female comedian,” so I tried to write jokes that didn’t appear to come from a distinctly female point of view. I wore hoodies and jeans on stage, which once prompted one of my male friends to say — while wearing a stained shirt and tattered jeans — “you know, Marcia, you could dress up every once in a while. Maybe brush your hair sometimes?” I took it as a joke. How could I have done otherwise? What could be worse as a female comedian than being seen as not having a sense of humor about these things? But after a while, it started to seem that this approach wasn’t serving me well. As a young comedian, I was desperate for a mentor. My friends who had begun to make money all got their start from someone with clout taking them on the road to open for them. Yet every man I talked to seemed either alarmingly flirtatious, uncomfortable interacting with women or determined to keep me at arm’s length. Some even seemed offended that I presented myself as sexually unavailable. (Once I told a male friend I considered him an older brother, and he told me that was “gross” and to “never say that again.”) Were these people bad men? No. Did it mean they would never give me a chance? No. Did any of them masturbate in front of me? Also no. Did I wish I could transform into a man so they would see me as a comic and not a potential sexual partner, or the type of woman who would make trouble? Yes. I tried to shrug it off. It didn’t matter if the men determined to see me a certain way didn’t like me, I thought. I always worked hard and would continue to. Anyone who thought differently was committed to misunderstanding me, and there was nothing I could do to control that. But the fact is you need to be liked in comedy to be given that initial shot. The sense that successful men would want to work with me for only one reason began to internalize as self-doubt about my own talent. What’s a young, funny girl with dreams to do? As comedians, we attempt to take our identities and turn them into careers in which others hear our truths, and relate to them as to their own. We aren’t bound by the rules of other professions, which demand decorum and a separation of who we are at work and who we are outside of it. For women in the business, the question of where to draw the line with our male colleagues can be complicated. We don’t want our reactions to instances of sexism or even sexual harassment to affect how we are viewed in the community. To speak out when we feel that men in comedy have crossed a line is to be a humorless downer — to say nothing is to be accused of betraying the sisterhood. To bring up that we work under different rules from our male colleagues is to disturb the irreverent, never-serious fantasy world that male comedians have created around themselves. It challenges their sense of themselves as people who are sharp and observant — how could they be missing something right in front of them? For some, it becomes, perhaps subconsciously, easier to not have women around in a professional capacity at all than it is to expect better behavior from creative men. Indifference toward our mistreatment is viewed as an unfortunate side effect to the necessary art of challenging taboos through laughter. I am fortunate enough to be pursuing comedy at a time when more and more women are coming onto the scene, and I’ve begun to see a concerted effort to not view one another as competition, but rather as a community — to not feel threatened by the new, talented woman in town, but instead to be excited, or to approach her with the kind of camaraderie that the men have always had with one another. With time, I’ve also become a more outspoken feminist. At 25, I started embracing my point of view as a woman, using feminist humor not only as a form of catharsis but also as a form of armoring myself. I’ve stopped evaluating my jokes based on how I think men will react to them. But still there are times when the little ways in which we are undermined as women feels like too much to conquer. There are instances where I feel more pressure than my male colleagues to be nice, always on or to “let things go.” I fear that I won’t be given the same room to fail. I fear I will be identified as a complainer for speaking my mind about the problems I see in the community around me. But I keep showing up, and I will continue to do so. Hopefully, after this week, at the very least there will be fewer unexpected penises.