President Trump reignited controversy about Russia recently by declaring he believes that its president, Vladimir Putin, is sincere when he asserts that Moscow did not interfere in last year’s presidential election. The director of the C.I.A., Mike Pompeo, made similarly confounding remarks last month when he said that Russia’s campaign had failed to affect the outcome of the election, misrepresenting the formal judgment of the intelligence community. A C.I.A. spokesman later said that Mr. Pompeo had misspoken. As former C.I.A. officers, we find both of those comments deeply troubling. But another, less noticed remark by Mr. Pompeo was equally disturbing. He said that agency officers have an obligation to remain quiet about their work for a period that “far extends beyond the day you turn in your badge.” Even if his ire was trained primarily at specific outspoken former intelligence community leaders, his message to all former C.I.A. officers was clear: Stop speaking out. Our response to him is this: Respectfully, we won’t. As former C.I.A. officers, we would like to explain why we have decided to speak out about the troubling state of our country’s leadership and the dangerous implications for our national security. Two of us served as analysts focused on counterterrorism and broader security issues, while another of us was an operations officer for nearly three decades. Each of us served under presidents of both parties, and we all left the C.I.A. at different times and for different reasons. We fall on various points of the political spectrum, but at least one element unites us: We joined the C.I.A. because of our love of country and desire to protect the ideals upon which it was founded. On our first day at C.I.A. headquarters, we raised our right hands and declared that we would protect and defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic. Nowhere in that oath — or any of the reams of paperwork we signed — did we pledge to defend a specific president or a particular political party. Our loyalty oath was to something far greater, and that oath is the very reason we have chosen to be vocal. Indeed, we believe we have a responsibility to call out when our leadership is not doing enough to keep America safe. We are most alarmed by the current administration’s continued denial of Russian interference in the presidential election, despite the high confidence judgment of the intelligence community to the contrary. In the most recent episode, President Trump has equivocated as to whom he believes: his own intelligence agencies or Mr. Putin, a retired K.G.B. colonel. It was only after a public outcry that President Trump, seemingly begrudgingly, cast his lot with American intelligence agencies, at least for the time being. Indeed, the intelligence community assessment was emphatic: Russia carried out an aggressive covert influence campaign, including cyberoperations, to give Mr. Trump an advantage and to undermine public faith in our democratic process. This was not the run-of-the-mill Russian meddling in our affairs but a sophisticated, multipronged attack against our most sacred democratic institutions. However, neither the administration nor Congress has done anything meaningful to fortify us from future attacks, instead downplaying and, in the case of Mr. Trump, often outright rejecting the findings. We come from an intelligence culture that eschews partisan politics. National security should not be a game for politicians to use for political leverage. Russian aggression is a real and present threat, the denial of which for political gain will only invite additional Russian interference. Our country is at risk every day the administration chooses to ignore this threat. The administration is rightly concerned about leaks of classified information, which appear to be on the rise. We know better than most that revealing classified intelligence can result in the exposure of sensitive intelligence programs and methods. In the worst cases, leaks can put actual lives on the line. However, divulging classified information and calling out inaction as well as wrongheaded or shortsighted decisions by our elected leaders and their senior advisers are very different things. The C.I.A. has a thoughtful process of pre-publication review of our public comments (including this essay) to ensure we protect secrets, sources and methods of intelligence. We were raised in the C.I.A. culture; we are proud of it and protective of its work. A former C.I.A. director, Michael Hayden, himself an ardent public defender of the agency and our national values, has also strongly argued for being transparent with the public as much as possible, consistent with national security. We agree with our former director. Now more than ever, we believe former intelligence officers need to help raise the level of debate, appropriately share information within our areas of expertise and help the public understand the role of our dedicated intelligence professionals. We will continue to be pointed in our criticism as long as our elected leaders ignore a threat that plagued us in 2016 — and surely will again in 2018 and 2020 absent a concerted strategy to address it. Our duty to serve our country did not stop the day we turned in our badges. Speaking out against threats to national security, even if they come from within, is simply another way of doing so.