In July of 2016 Molly McCully Brown and Susannah Nevison met for the first time at the Sewanee Writers’ Conference in Tennessee. As working poets with physical disabilities, a condition each explores in her work, they found much in common and quickly became friends, and have grown closer over time. These essays make up a dialogue about being disabled in an able-bodied world that arose from their friendship. There’s SO MUCH standing at this party. Legs are the worst, I hate them! I send this text from a corner of my university’s beginning-of-the-year department get-together, leaning heavily on my cane and trying to arrange my face in such a way that I don’t look too uncomfortable. Our department chair’s house is up two shallow flights of brick stairs, and anyway, even if I could get my wheelchair inside, the whole place is packed to the gills with people and I could never move in it. Instead, I make do relying on walls and various pieces of furniture for support. Periodically, I perch for a few minutes on the couch, but no one stays sitting long, and from down there, it’s impossible to hear anyone who’s standing over the din. The expectation is that you’ll circulate. I love my colleagues, and I’m happy to see them, but every year I hate this party. There comes a point a little way into the evening when the pain in my knees and back and ankles reaches a roaring point and my head is filled with the sound of a false ocean, as if my ear is pressed to the mouth of a conch shell. I can only half-concentrate on what anyone is saying to me. They’re all muted, and my brain is busy balancing and breathing. The truth about pain is that it makes you tired. My body needs to rest, but it’s more than that. I’m exhausted by having to feign comfort, and I don’t want to translate what’s going on inside me, even for my friends. They’re sorry when I’m hurting, but for them, the act of rising from the couch and standing is effortless and instant. All that explaining my body will do is widen the gulf between us. Usually, this is the point where I take myself off to the side for a moment and sit down apart from everyone. This year, though, my phone chimes quietly and brightly in my hand — I was just thinking the same thing! THE WORST! Lots of standing here, too.  Susannah, a friend and fellow poet, who also has a physical disability, is texting from her own department party across the country, in Utah. Susannah and I publish with the same press, but we hadn’t met until this summer, when by chance we ended up at the same writer’s conference. She found me the first night, and we fell in like we’d known each other forever, trading medical histories so extensive that one woman, shocked to overhear us, yelped, “You two are falling apart!” We laughed until we couldn’t breathe. And since we’ve gone home to our separate states, we’ve spoken almost every day. You’re falling apart. This is a version of a truth I’ve known about myself ever since I can remember: Your name is Molly. You have curly hair. You like to talk. You’re falling apart.  The medical version of the matter goes like this: As a result of being born prematurely and deprived of oxygen, I have cerebral palsy, a neurological disorder. My particular type increases my muscle tone and hinders my balance. I can walk, but only a little. I can stand, but not for long. My crouched, spastic gate puts too much pressure on my joints and so the cartilage in my knees and ankles is wearing away. I am, quite literally, falling apart, even if it is at a relatively glacial pace. This fact was delivered, first, in the mouths of doctors talking over my head to my parents about possible surgical and orthopedic interventions: selective dorsal rhizotomy, partial hamstring release, heel cord lengthening, double-upright-KFOs. Then I heard it in the mouths of the people who loved me, trying to give me the tools to live the rest of my life as painlessly and independently as possible: I know it hurts, but you have to stretch, you have to walk, you have to put weight on your legs. Otherwise, you won’t be able to walk anymore. If you aren’t walking, I learned from the world, your body’s no good. Somewhere along the way, I got cleaved down the middle. There was my damaged body, and then there was the rest of me, desperately trying to hold that body together, thinking: I hate you and then I need you and then thank you and then please don’t fall apart!  These days, a lot of the language I use about my own life still reflects that split. I’m visibly disabled, and so I have to talk about my body everywhere I go. Sometimes, it’s to assuage people’s curiosity: the woman in the shoe store wants to know what happened to me, or the man I’m on a first date with hasn’t asked about my family but is weirdly hungry for details about just what exactly my body can do, just how exactly I’m scarred. Sometimes, explaining is a matter of necessity: I need to know if there’s an elevator in the building where I teach this semester. Sometimes, I’m not sure exactly why it is I’m explaining: On the first day of the new semester I ask my students if they have any questions about me, and one boy puts up a hand and asks, utterly guileless: So, what is it that’s wrong with you?  I’m a relatively new teacher, and this hasn’t happened to me before. Still, I answer him the way I’ve grown accustomed to answering. I have a disability, I say, like it’s a shirt I put on in the morning. It makes my balance bad. It means I don’t walk very well.  After that, we have a conversation about why, in a writing class especially, being careful and exacting with our language is so important, but I can’t stop that exchange from pinging around in my skull. The truth is that even with the people who know and love me best, I have a nasty habit of treating my body like it’s a bad suit of clothes or a thing that somehow just keeps happening to me. I don’t talk much about it unless I need to explain: I can’t do this or Could you give me a hand with that or I’m sorry, I can’t go there. Mostly, I try to render it background noise. Sometimes I forget you have a disability, a friend says. An ex-boyfriend said once: It’s such a small thing. I did this on purpose. Their forgetting is my most impressive magic trick. I never forget about my disability — its root system is shot through every part of me. This is true on a basic biological level: It’s a feature of my brain and the electrical signals it sends. But I mean it more deeply than that. It’s not just that I’m often in pain, or that I have to think about my body almost all the time, although both of these things are true. It’s that I don’t exist without my body. Its particular margins, and movements and methods for making it through the world are present, not just in the moments when it causes me hardship but in the best and wildest and strongest stretches of my being. My body isn’t standing apart from me holding my life in a vise grip: It is making my life, indivisible from the rest of me. We are walking together through the world, as odd and slow as it looks. I hate my legs, and I don’t. I love my body, and I don’t. There is a list of things that are wrong with me, and none of them are wrong with me. I go whole stretches of time without pausing to think: I have a disability. I am always, always, always disabled. When I make my life legible to an able-bodied world, all the nuance, all those contradictions, which aren’t really contradictions, get sucked out of it, somehow. Even I start to forget them. Any way you slice it, explaining is an act of erasure. Either I am describing my body so that it can be understood and thereby forgotten: Look, it’s not so scary after all — there it goes settling down in the corner to sleep. Or I am describing my body so that it begins to subsume the rest of me: Look, she grows curiouser and curiouser — that wheelchair, that weird walk, that way her hands curl up.  Susannah and I are on the phone in the middle of a slow Tuesday and I can’t stop thinking how weirdly grateful I feel for her voice on the other end of the line. We’re talking about our bodies, and then not about our bodies, about her dog, and my classes, and the zip line we’d like to string between us, from Mississippi all the way to Utah. And then we’re talking about our bodies again, that sense of being both separate and not separate from the skin we’re in. And it hits me all at once that none of this is in translation, none of this is explaining. Legs are the worst, I say, I hate them. And I know she knows I mean it, but that I also mean: I love them and I’m grateful and I’m glad you’re here. I also mean I’m tired. And I also mean thank God. — Molly McCully Brown A few years ago, I started going to a new indoor pool. As soon as I had stripped down to my bathing suit in the dressing room, a woman asked, “What happened to you? Were you in some kind of accident?” Like the student in Molly’s class, this woman asked me to explain my body. I wanted to simply say no, I was not in an accident, but I’ve spent a good part of my life making people more comfortable with my body, and offered my prepared translation. Without even thinking, I said, “I’ve had a lot of surgery.” To be asked to account for my body, especially by strangers, reminds me that my body needs its own introduction, that it visually disrupts or upsets another person’s field of vision. My body requires explanation in public spaces because public spaces aren’t made for people who look like me. As long as I can remember, I’ve been taught to speak about disability as something that exists in addition to myself. I’d say I was born with extensive birth defects in my legs and feet. I’d say I have a lot of foot and leg issues. At no point would I have said I’m disabled. Undoubtedly, this semantic dislocation is related to the fact that I can render disability invisible. If I wear pants, no one sees the scars. To the untrained eye, I walk normally. I have the privilege of passing as completely able-bodied in appearance, if not in practice. This point might seem small, but it isn’t. Growing up, I thought I could be in possession of physical disabilities without being physically disabled. Because I could pass for able-bodied, I could perform some kind of normalcy. I could put disability away like a costume; I could take it on and off. Explaining disability is like speaking two languages, and it is the disabled person who is required to translate for the able-bodied world. Can I refuse to translate? It doesn’t feel like an option. A refusal to translate is a refusal to turn the elephant in the room into a mouse. But this is what the world around me asks me to do, and more often than not I oblige. Still, this mouse has the power to terrorize me. I learned very early on to advocate for myself, to take ownership of my body. I’d rattle off the terms: bilateral club foot. A leg-length discrepancy. Congenital birth defects. Precision in language grants narrative power. So long as I could name it, I could explain it, and in a way control it. I could reframe the way I was seen. And yet, so often the act of naming disability enables another person to look away, or refuse to see me as I am. I move in an instant from a hypervisible object of curiosity to an invisible nonentity. I often think of my body, and disability, as an object I command, or try to command. Language shapes how I understand myself — I am both my disability and the mind that needs to exist apart from it. I am always dual. This division of self, or the need to perform that division in language, is something I unwittingly learned from the medical model, as I listened to doctors discuss her deformity or her birth defects with my parents. I also understand my body as a made object. The body I was born with, as Molly pointed out on the phone the other day, wasn’t going to work out so well. The body I live in is the product of many hands: I move through the world in a vessel that was given to me, that was shaped and reshaped through surgery, so that I can propel myself through space and time without the need for a wheelchair. It is both mine and not mine. I have never consciously known my body as it entered the world. It’s a strange kind of grief I carry, a weird nostalgia not for something better, but for some truer version of myself. As if to know my original body would somehow move me closer to an understanding of that split I — as if maybe then I would be one and not two, disability a nameable part of me instead of something I hold beside me. Moments like the one in the pool dressing room, moments where I can see the instant someone registers my body as deviant, force that complicated relationship with disability to the foreground. The removal of sweatpants in a dressing room is the removal of an able-bodied facade. It forces the linguistic toggle between I’m disabled and I have a disability. When my body misbehaves, as it inevitably does, that distinction between being disabled and having a disability becomes shaky, and shakier still when repeated surgical intervention is warranted. Then, disability is no longer something I command, hide or control. It eclipses me. It becomes a defining characteristic. Under a stranger’s gaze, I become the woman on crutches or the woman in the wheelchair. In other people’s eyes, I’m clearly disabled. Whether I like it or not, it’s impossible to completely separate body and self. In terms of pronouns, we have to figure out how to be me. We have to work as one. Unlike when I remove sweatpants in a dressing room, there’s no point when disability isn’t present for me. Though I perform that division in speech, in explaining disability, I’m always aware of myself as disabled. I’m always thinking, consciously, about how I move. If I don’t, I stumble. For any major life event, I can tell you what shoes I was wearing and what kinds of surfaces I walked on, whether the cement was cracked, how big the gravel was. I plan my day around how much walking I’ll do, and whether it will be flat or on an incline. Why then is it so hard for me to say I’m disabled? Perhaps part of it comes from the near-constant performance of able-bodiedness. Perhaps part of it is that I’ve adapted so well, and I’ve made such progress in the eyes of the medical field. Perhaps I really do believe that I can separate my body from my self, because I do it all the time in language. When I found out Molly was at the writers’ conference, I made a beeline for her table and introduced myself. Within minutes, we were laughing and sharing hospital stories. There was no explaining, no need for back story. No need to define ourselves or our bodies. There was simply the joy of being recognized, that rare and easy space, where there is never any need for translation. — Susannah Nevison