The call came to Ezra Ritchin at 3:30 p.m. one day last week, from a Bronx public defender: A 19-year-old transgender man, a high school senior, had been picked up for petit theft. Although he had no criminal record, the judge had set bail at $1,000. It might as well have been a million. Even when bail is set at $1,000 or less, only 15 percent of misdemeanor defendants given it in New York City can make bail at arraignment. They are fortunate; those who wait for trial outside jail have a 70 percent chance their case will be dismissed or reduced to a noncriminal traffic-ticket-style violation. Those who can’t make bail — more than 12,000 people in 2015 — have two choices. One is to fight their case — and while that’s happening, wait in jail, probably Rikers Island. Very few people choose that option. Instead, they eventually plead guilty — even if they are, in fact, not guilty. That lets them go home right away, but the resulting criminal record will follow them like a cloud, raining forever on their job and housing prospects. Ritchin is head of the Bronx Freedom Fund, which offers a third alternative. The fund bails out people accused of misdemeanors whose bail is set at $2,000 or less; the average bail paid is $1,000. The unit was started by the Bronx Defenders, who refer their clients to the fund, which can bail out about 100 people a month — a third to a half of those eligible for the service. The fund has also just started work in Queens. The fund is one of at least four such community organizations in the city, including the brand-new citywide Liberty Fund. Pilar Maria Weiss, who runs the National Bail Fund Network, a project of the Brooklyn Community Bail Fund, said that about 30 such organizations exist around the country. In addition, more than a dozen African-American-led community organizations stage periodic bail-out actions. All this work descends from the slavery-era practice of African-Americans pooling their money to buy freedom for loved ones. This week, the founder of the Bronx Fund announced a national expansion: A new  project will set up bail funds in St. Louis and Tulsa, Okla., with more cities to come. The money bail system is a factory that manufactures guilty pleas. The court system runs on them. If everyone accused of misdemeanors went to trial, the courts would collapse from the overload. So the presumption of innocence comes with a caveat: It require a cash guarantee. One huge drawback of requiring bail is that pretrial detention is shockingly expensive for taxpayers. A report from the Independent Commission on New York City Criminal Justice and Incarceration Reform, released in April, put the direct cost of jailing someone at Rikers at $247,000 per year. Then there are indirect costs. Even a few days in jail can cost someone a job, immigration papers, custody of a child or a family’s shelter housing. And jail breeds crime. A low-risk defendant held two or three days in jail is 40 percent more likely to commit a subsequent crime than an equivalent person held for only one night. Ritchin had been showing me the fund’s work when he got the call about his newest client. He knew he had to hurry. He told the authorities that bail was coming; please keep the man off that bus to Rikers. But at 5 p.m., night court was starting with a new shift, and sometimes the holds get erased. The horrors of Rikers are known worldwide. But every jail is dangerous. “There’s no such thing as ‘just a few days in jail,’ ” Ritchin said. Sexual and other physical assaults are most common in the first three days. Almost half of deaths in jail, including suicides, happen the first week. Transgender people are especially vulnerable. Although it is illegal, detainees on misdemeanor charges are sometimes strip-searched — in public — upon arrival at Rikers. “If I go to Rikers, I’m going to kill myself,” the client told his mother. Ritchin ran to pick up checks. We began speed-walking down 161st Street. New York City actually uses bail in a smaller percentage of cases than many other jurisdictions. The city arrests 300,000 people on misdemeanor charges each year. About 70 percent are released on recognizance, with no bail. When judges in New York City do set bail for misdemeanors, however, it’s money bail. Although excessive bail is unconstitutional — so says the Eighth Amendment — bail is set at more than the defendant can pay in the vast majority of cases. Yet there are alternatives. The law provides nine forms of bail — including some that require little or no money up front. They are virtually never used. It’s one of many ways the system funnels people into jail. I met a woman named Cameron who was arrested on what ended up as a simple assault charge after a fight. The fund bailed her out, allowing her to make the final exam for her medical billing course the next day and to keep custody of her son. Otherwise she would have gone to Rikers. Cameron couldn’t use the $500 in her pocket, since defendants can’t pay their own bail. Do you remember friends’ and family’s phone numbers? Of course not. They’re on your phone, which is taken away when you are arrested. You can’t use a credit card unless a judge says so, which seldom happens. Your mom can bail you out — but only after work? Too bad. Rikers doesn’t wait. “If everyone here were wealthy, this would be tolerated for about an hour and a half, and then the system would be shut down,” Ritchin said. This system doesn’t keep dangerous people off the street; a drug dealer is more likely to make bail than a shoplifter. Nor do you find flight risks among those accused of trespassing, open-container violations, shoplifting, fist-fighting, marijuana possession or turnstile jumping. Defendants could, and sometimes do, simply fail to appear in court. But doing so creates an open criminal warrant — which means no one will hire them, and they could be arrested at any moment. That’s at least as serious a penalty as forfeiting bail money. New York City is slowly reforming its pretrial practices. Fewer people now await trial from a cell. But if Mayor Bill de Blasio is to keep his promise to close Rikers, the jail population must drop much further. And that means getting rid of money bail. It just isn’t necessary. Weiss said that in bail funds around the country, 85 to 90 percent of clients make all their court appearances. More than 95 percent of the Bronx fund clients do so — and some have two dozen dates for one case. The Brooklyn fund has the same success rate. In one sense, these figures are artificially high. Bail funds are likely to spend their limited kitty on those most likely to appear: people with community ties, phone numbers and a good record of past appearances. But in a larger sense, the figures are artificially low. Everyone included was given bail — by definition a group that judges consider higher risk. In contrast, the standard court appearance rate, which is 86 percent, includes everyone released. A majority of those are released on recognizance because they’re considered less risky. Bail funds achieve these numbers for a simple reason: People don’t miss court dates because they aim to abscond. They miss them because they forget, have no one to take care of a baby, or can’t afford to ride the subway or miss work. So the Bronx Freedom Fund asks: What would help you to come back? They can provide a Metro card for public transportation, or child care. Sometimes it’s as simple as a phone call or text reminder. Most bail funds do the same. Mary Hooks is a co-director of Southerners on New Ground, an Atlanta-based L.G.B.T. group that has organized mass bailouts in various Southern cities, including a “Black Mamas Day Bailout” timed for Mother’s Day. “Many of the women we bailed out, we can’t just say ‘Good luck in life!’ ” she said. “We hired case managers to get folks stabilized over a 90-day period. We galvanized resources in the community to help them get a job, find some type of temporary housing or get into a transitional shelter.” Everyone I spoke to stressed that bail funds are not a solution. “It’s a big Band-Aid,” said Insha Rahman, the project director for bail reform and pretrial justice in New York City at the nonprofit Vera Institute of Justice. But their results show what can be done instead of money bail, she said. Setting bail is a judge’s statement that someone is too risky to release without it. But she says the opposite almost always turns out to be true of people the funds have helped. “That person stays arrest-free and does exactly what he’s supposed to do.” “We don’t want to build a $200 million organization to bail people out,” said Weiss. “We want to get rid of the money bail system.” Ritchin got to the Bronx Criminal Court bail window just as the night court staff was arriving. “Keep that hold on!” he pleaded. Bail paid, a carbon copy of the paperwork in hand (there are no computers), he went downstairs to see his client, who was behind bulletproof glass in his holding cell. The client sat, tense and upright, as Ritchin explained that he wouldn’t have to go to Rikers. “Thank you,” he exhaled. “Thank you.” “Do you have a phone? Email address? Any way to contact you directly?” Ritchin asked. The client did not. Ritchin confirmed a phone number for the man’s mother. The fund would use it to remind him of court dates, but also to talk to him and offer support. Can I get a note for school, the man asked. “I’ll ask your lawyer to take care of it,” Ritchin said. He told the client that he was due in court Wednesday morning. “I’ll be there with your lawyer to meet you. I’ll call your mom with the exact address.” The release process had already begun, Ritchin assured him. “It will take a few hours. But you’re going home.”