Seven and a half years after the passage of the Affordable Care Act, and five years after the Supreme Court gave its central provision a stamp of legal approval, America is still fighting over the individual mandate. The debate over the requirement to maintain health coverage or pay a penalty has become a permanent feature of American political life — a debate from which we seemingly cannot escape. At the moment, much of the debate revolves around the mandate’s potential impact on tax reform: Senate Republicans, prodded by President Trump, will include a repeal of the mandate in their tax legislation. Mr. Trump, meanwhile, is reportedly at work on an executive order to weaken the mandate if Congress does not take action. Democrats are warning that to do so would be to undermine the health care law and end coverage for millions. The accuracy of the Congressional Budget Office model estimating the provision’s cost and coverage effects is a major point of contention. To the sort of casual observer who is blessed to not follow legislative markups and daily Twitter skirmishes over C.B.O. scores, these debates might look both predictably partisan and boringly technical — and often they are. But they also serve as recurring reminders of the many ways in which the mandate has inserted itself into our national political consciousness, its ripple effects touching not only health care but also tax legislation and federal debt and deficit calculations. Why has the mandate become so central to our politics? And why has the debate about it persisted with such intensity? To answer those questions, it helps to understand how its supporters and opponents view the provision. To its supporters, the mandate is the linchpin of a comprehensive regulatory framework intended to improve the national health care market — and, in particular, to increase the number of people with health insurance. More than anything else, the goal of Obamacare was to expand the ranks of the insured, and supporters see the mandate as one of the keys to that goal. In the 1990s, states that attempted to guarantee health coverage for individuals with pre-existing conditions saw their individual insurance markets collapse when those rules were implemented without coverage mandates (in part because not enough healthy customers signed up). The mandate makes those rules possible. The C.B.O. currently estimates that eliminating the requirement would decrease coverage by 13 million over the next decade. The mandate, in this view, is a benevolent technocratic necessity, born of economic models and real-world experience. When the outcome is so obviously positive, concerns about government power are irrelevant. But to many of Obamacare’s critics, those concerns are of the highest importance. In this view, the mandate is a form of unacceptable government overreach, a violation of the individual right to avoid engaging in commerce. It is an attempt to compel behavior not as a result of making a choice, like driving, but as a matter of being alive. It is also likely to be less effective than most supporters currently believe, thanks in part to the C.B.O.’s assumption that the mandate drives sign-ups for Medicaid, which generally has no premiums. On this point, the C.B.O. may soon agree. Recent reports indicate it is in the process of reassessing its coverage model and that the revision will find that repealing the mandate would have smaller effects on coverage. Finally, for those who oppose Obamacare — which is to say, most Republicans — the mandate is also useful as a political cudgel, a widely disliked signature provision of a law they oppose for a multitude of reasons. It does not hurt that the C.B.O. currently estimates that repealing it would reduce the deficit by $338 billion over a decade, as a result of reduced coverage, savings that could be used to help offset the effects of tax reductions. To critics, then, the mandate is bad politics, an ineffective policy and a violation, regardless of what the Supreme Court has said, of our nation’s founding code. To defenders, it is a practical and necessary exercise of regulatory authority in service of an unalloyed public good. You can see these views throughout the history of the provision, which is less a consistent partisan battleground and more of a back and forth between those who view the provision as a practical necessity and those who view it as a political loser. The provision was proposed by conservative policy experts at the Heritage Foundation and found traction in the 1990s as part of a health care bill endorsed by a group of Republican senators. When Massachusetts’ Republican governor, Mitt Romney, backed the mandate as part of a 2006 health care overhaul, political advisers warned him away, but he was reportedly convinced by an economic model showing that without the mandate, the plan would cover a third of the people at two-thirds of the cost. On the campaign trail in 2008, Hillary Clinton supported the mandate, while Barack Obama was opposed. As president, however, he supported it, convinced in part by an economic model showing it would result in more coverage. Once passed into law, the provision was then challenged by Republicans, who had come to universally oppose the idea as an unconstitutional requirement to engage in commerce. The Supreme Court agreed — but decided it was legal anyway, as a tax. When the health law went online, Mr. Obama expanded exemptions to the mandate using dubious legal authority in response to a popular outcry about its effect. Part of the reason the fight over the mandate is so persistent is that the two prevailing views are largely incompatible. The mandate pits pragmatism versus principle, results versus process, expertise versus ideals. With an all-or-nothing provision like the mandate, there is no easy way to split the difference. And what opponents have discovered is that the practical arguments have tended to win — even, as we saw in this summer’s failed health care efforts, in a Republican-controlled Congress. By including a repeal of the mandate in tax legislation, however, Republicans now appear to be transitioning to a more practical argument themselves. After the Senate bill was released on Tuesday, the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, explained its inclusion: Repeal would raise revenue, help offset the effects of tax reductions elsewhere in the bill and make it easier for Republicans to make a lower corporate tax permanent. It helped, he added, that it was unpopular and that every Republican senator supported repeal. What today’s Republicans have learned from years of arguments over the mandate is that it is a means to an end, a vehicle for achieving partisan policy goals rather than a matter to be disputed on principle. As a critic of Obamacare, I tend to side with those who oppose the mandate. But I also recognize that its proponents have a point when they argue that it is the fulcrum of a complex coverage scheme and that eliminating only one component of the health care act could be a recipe for even greater dysfunction in the law’s insurance exchanges than exists now. And while Republicans may well be right that the C.B.O.’s current estimate overstates the impact of the mandate on health coverage, what that means is that the budget savings are less substantial as well. For Republicans, repealing the mandate would be a partial victory. For if they succeed — hardly a certainty, given the party’s internal divisions — the argument over the requirement would still persist, because Obamacare’s pre-existing conditions regulations would still be on the books, creating the potential for the same sort of individual market problems observed in the states. So it would end the mandate, yes, but not the debate around it. Even in its absence, we’ll never really be able to escape.