The pending merger of AT&T and Time Warner has attracted a significant amount of attention, for precisely the wrong reasons. Politics have apparently intruded on a transaction that until recently was considered relatively uncontroversial. Combining AT&T, which distributes digital content over its wireless networks, with a news and entertainment provider like Time Warner is what economists and antitrust experts consider a classic vertical merger. Because the companies don’t compete, their combining would not alter the competitive landscape in either the telecommunications or entertainment industries. For more than 40 years, through Republican and Democratic administrations, the courts have not blocked a vertical integration like this one. Typically more problematic for the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division are horizontal mergers, where two competitors in the same industry seek to combine. But this past summer the Trump administration waved through the horizontal merger of the giant retailer Amazon, already active in food sales, with a leading upscale grocer, Whole Foods. To now block a vertical integration of AT&T and Time Warner would indicate an inexcusably scattershot approach to antitrust decisions that would create enormous uncertainties for the broader business community and shake public confidence in the rule of law that underpins our democracy. Businesses seek to integrate vertically because such mergers tend to create efficiencies and synergies — benefiting both companies without posing major risks to their competitors or, more crucially, to consumers. With all the options available to consumers for receiving video programming these days — including cable, satellite, internet broadband and smartphones — the market is vibrantly, almost chaotically, competitive and innovative. When viewed in light of this creative turmoil, the AT&T-Time Warner transaction does not pose a competitive threat. If anything, it would create an attractive set of new options for the viewing public. To appreciate the dynamism of the video and television space, consider that Apple, a relatively new entrant, recently ordered two full seasons of Reese Witherspoon’s latest television show without so much as seeing a pilot. It underscored the competitive new dynamics of the marketplace: Companies are throwing around cash like never before to attract viewers already happily distracted by an array of programming and viewing alternatives in this new golden age of television. Rather than Time Warner holding anything resembling a dominant position in the entertainment industry, it finds itself competing with emerging video powerhouses like Netflix and Amazon. And consumers are increasingly cutting the cable because they have numerous, often cheaper streaming options for getting content they want. This is the proper context for assessing AT&T’s merger with Time Warner. The newly created entity would have no incentive to erect walls around its content. To the contrary, the fundamental goal of content distribution — maximizing the number of people who watch any given program — hasn’t changed. Fears that AT&T might act to undermine competition by, for example, withholding prime content from competing distribution companies would make no business sense. How do we know? One need only look at perhaps the closest comparison to the AT&T-Time Warner merger — the marriage of the nation’s largest cable and internet broadband provider, Comcast, to NBC Universal, which the Justice Department blessed in 2011. Despite the arguments of opponents at the time, there has been no negative impact to consumers or competitors. Quite the opposite — the competitive and creative forces that continue to change the industry have only accelerated since the Comcast-NBC merger. If the Justice Department cannot cite persuasive antitrust grounds for blocking the AT&T-Time Warner merger, the public will be left wondering whether political motives were involved or that the department’s thinking was muddied by vague opposition to media consolidation. Neither of those reasons would likely stand up in federal court. By any objective analysis, the real power in the information industry these days is not in the wireless or entertainment industries. It is in companies like Google and Facebook, which possess the power to influence our national elections and redefine basic human interactions. In this brave new digital world, blocking the merger of AT&T and Time Warner would only undermine public confidence in the ability of antitrust enforcers to recognize reality. Instead, the Justice Department should approve the merger and get to work policing the real threats to competition and consumer welfare.