This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.  The House of Representatives passed a bill yesterday that will raise taxes on millions of middle-class families. The bill will also give gigantic tax cuts to the wealthy and, as a result, cause the deficit to soar. It’s a bill that would do real damage to the American economy. But the House was never the main event. A party that holds a majority in the House can usually pass a bill there. It happened with a Republican bill to repeal Obamacare earlier this year, and it happened with an aggressive climate bill when Democrats controlled the House during the Obama presidency. But both that Democratic climate bill and the Republican health-insurance repeal failed to get through the Senate. Now the tax bill moves to the Senate, where its fate is more uncertain than it was in the House. Republicans can probably afford to lose only two senators, and about a half-dozen senators appear to be in play. Axios has a helpful guide to the swing senators, including John McCain, who presumably would have the same procedural concerns about the tax bill that he had about the health bill. Both are being rushed through the Senate. Also on the tax bill: Seth Hanlon explains how the Tax Foundation, an advocacy organization for corporate tax cuts, has cast itself as a group of disinterested experts. Paul Krugman tells the story of a top Trump adviser being disappointed by the reaction of C.E.O.s to the tax plan. The latest version of the Senate bill is even harsher than an earlier version, write Jacob Leibenluft and Chye-Ching Huang. I think of the bill as Mitch McConnell’s Middle-Class Tax Increase of 2017.  Al Franken. My colleague Michelle Goldberg sharply makes the cases both against and for Franken’s resignation, following an accusation that he forcibly kissed and groped a female broadcaster. Goldberg comes down on the side of resignation. Kirsten Powers of USA Today says that anyone who believes Franken needs to resign should also believe that President Trump needs to resign. Trump has many more credible accusers — and the accusations against him are worse. In New York magazine, Ed Kilgore predicts that Franken’s political career is over, probably soon and, if not, when his current term ends, in 2020.