“Against the ball, put the laser against the ball, kid! Madone.” I was folded over on one knee at Boston’s North End bocce courts, trying to get the guys a measurement. Eyeing the distance between a bocce ball and a pallino often doesn’t work, so Sammy Viscione comes armed with both a tape and a laser measure, though his sciatica makes it impossible for him to bend. So he asked me to do the laser measurement. I’m inept with tools, and the guys kept hollering, “Against the ball, kid!” Someone else said, “Bocce, baby!” in that keyed-up way that meant he lives for this. Bocce breathes in the oldest memories of Sammy and this clan of 40-plus men, most in their eighth decade, many of them veterans. My buddy Jimmy Pasto, who grew up in the North End, told me about these characters. There’s no other word for them. I was eager to experience their bocce brotherhood, its out-of-time aura, its connection to a living Italian-American history. And as someone who’s written much about the compensatory bluster of manhood, I was intensely interested in witnessing what their masculine camaraderie looked like in our post-masculine age. The guys call Sammy “the commissioner” because he presides over the bocce league through the Friends of the North End, a 45-year-old fraternity of paisanos with sacred memories. “This place is our rightful inheritance,” Sammy told me. “Our fathers and grandfathers played here.” Every Sunday morning, this ritual at the bocce court is their Mass. “We play 95 percent by the rules,” Sammy said. “We’re really here just to be together.” And for the artery-fouling doughnuts confected that morning in a bakery down the street. These men are talented chop-busters engaged in a ceaseless badinage of brotherhood: “Don’t listen to that guy, he don’t know bocce”; “That guy’s trouble, stay away from that one”; “What a liar, that S.O.B.” Beneath the jibing and expletives there is palpable warmth here, shouts of “Thata boy, Willie!” and “Way to go, Richie!” I recognize these men from my youth: My grandfather and his pals had an identical banter, salty and irreverent but brimming with affection for one another. When men have been friends for 70-odd years, ribbing is an expression of loyalty and love. What you sense from Sammy and the others are gusts of pride: in this place, and in bocce, but also in the fact of their survival. Living to a moderately active, bocce-loving 75 might not seem like much of an accomplishment until you realize how hard it is to be alive. That was another reason I’d come here, because social scientists are forever highlighting the significance of social connections. I wanted to glimpse the trick to longevity, and it turns out to be nothing more complicated than having friends — and bocce. Fitting that the sport is pronounced “botch-ee,” because whenever I tried to play as a teen, on back lawns at picnics with once-a-year kin, I botched it. I had no finesse, no delicacy of pitch, and the game is harder than it looks. You hear a lot about the archer’s or sniper’s aim, but let me tell you: The bocce player needs an equal amount of it. A typical game in the North End goes like this. First, pitch the pallino: It looks like a billiards cue ball and is tinier than a bocce ball. Your pitch of the pallino has to pass the center mark of the court, that vertical red line on the wood, or it’s no good. A court is the width and almost the length of a bowling lane. The North End has three, side by side. Next, the player who pitches the pallino also gets the first shot, trying to roll his ball right up to the pallino: The pallino is the jack, the target — aim for it, hit it if you have to. The bocce ball is the size of a grapefruit, though denser: It feels like three pounds of clay or smooth concrete. Next: after your opening pitch, your opponent tries to get his ball nearest the pallino, and whoever’s not nearest keeps trying. Points are awarded by tallying whose balls are nearest. Is it a sport? You’ll have to decide how you want to define “sport,” how a sport differs from a game, and what degree of leisure is allowed to mingle with it. Look at Matisse’s “Il Gioco Delle Bocce” and you’ll get a sense of how contentedly languid you can be. But bocce is by some accounts the oldest sport on earth. It’s simple to imagine a pair of Cro-Magnon slackers, banned from the mammoth hunt, rolling stones on a flat patch of their front yard. An alloy of billiards and horseshoes, or shuffleboard and bowling, bocce can’t decide what it wants to be, and so it’s comfortably all four. Bocce was invented in Italy by way of the Romans, who, with Hellenistic know-how, robbed it from the Greeks, who themselves robbed it from the Egyptians. It was revived and popularized in the late 19th century by the Italian general and statesman Giuseppe Garibaldi. An altar to bocce, this spot in the North End is also an incitation to memory, an off-ramp to the avenues of nostalgia. There in the harbor just beyond us, the U.S.S. Constitution floats out its retirement. To its left the granite obelisk commemorating Bunker Hill stabs skyward. The wooden docks are gone now; as kids, the bocce players dove from those docks into a harbor so filthy they emerged lacquered in oil. When the league finished that morning, I was given a lesson by Natale DeMarco, the most skilled player among them, a low, wide maestro with a cushioned voice who’s been at bocce, the guys said, every day since he was a boy in Italy. “Keep your wrist straight, your elbow in, just like bowling. Bank it off the red line, but not too hard. This court is slanted, so bank it, but not too hard.” My first pitch was too soft, my second too hard, but my third was the Goldilocks: It touched the red center mark with the right velocity and then veered next to the pallino, close enough to kiss it. Behind me were shouts of “Thata boy, Billy!” and “Good shot, Billy!” Before I left that morning, Sammy said, “Come any time. Most of this place ain’t like it was when we were kids. Everything’s condos now. All the good shops are gone.” But bocce isn’t gone. This is the 11th year of their league; they’re expecting to go 11 more.