LINCOLN, Neb. — In 1999, I had been a freshman in college in upstate New York for maybe two weeks — it was still September, no one had gotten winter jackets out yet — when my classmates started booking their flights home for Thanksgiving. They couldn’t wait. They regaled me with stories of family traditions and exotic-sounding food I’d never tried (cranberry sauce) and in some cases never even heard of (green bean casserole). I hadn’t been planning to go anywhere, and certainly hadn’t budgeted for it. My Miami-based Cuban family didn’t normally celebrate Thanksgiving, although we did try to make a turkey once, a mistake we’d never repeat. I was the first person in my family to go to college, so I already felt different from my peers in large and small ways. But their excitement about the break took that feeling to a new level. The trip home to Miami was too pricey for me, and in late November the semester was, technically, almost over, but learning that the default for most college students was heading home made me change plans. I wanted to be a typical college student, too. I used a new credit card to book a last-minute flight to Miami and showed up, without warning, at my parents’ house. They were thankfully happy to see me, but couldn’t understand why I came, saying with a shrug, “Oh, well, I guess we better do a Thanksgiving now.” My sophomore year, I was a resident adviser, and since I wouldn’t be repeating the previous year’s impulse buy, I volunteered to cover my dorm’s on-call duties over Thanksgiving, an assignment that no one wanted because it meant you couldn’t leave campus or even the building itself, after a certain hour. I was still not prepared for how dead campus would feel. I thought I’d pick up extra shifts at my work-study job: Wrong — the campus movie theater was closed. Fine, I thought, I’ll get to study in the choice spots at the library: Wrong — the libraries were closed. Fine, fine, at least I’ll get to eat at the dining hall that normally has long lines: The only campus dining hall that was open, with very limited hours, was not the good one. The students like me who stayed had certain similarities, I noticed. We mostly spoke a language other than English at home. We tended to be the first in our families to go to college, or we were the first in our families to be born in America — or we weren’t Americans at all. We hadn’t made good enough friends to get an invitation to some strange family’s celebration, but that was mostly a relief. It meant we weren’t going to be asked uncomfortable questions about our “heritage.” Years later, working as a college access counselor in Los Angeles, I told my students what I’d told myself: “It’s not worth it,” I’d say, knowing part of me was lying. I knew full well how lonely they might be over Thanksgiving break, how the emptiness of campus might amplify their feelings of alienation. The breaks I spent at Cornell made me see how my college hadn’t wholly anticipated someone like me there. My students, all of them from low-income families, would probably see that, too. Our organization typically paid for students’ flights home for winter break precisely because their families couldn’t afford them, so when they came home on their own dime for Thanksgiving, it sometimes vexed us. But then I’d think back to my freshman year impulse buy, my credit card bill. It made sense. I’m now a professor at the University of Nebraska in Lincoln. When I create my course calendar for the fall, I always plan it so that I can cancel classes for the whole week of Thanksgiving. I do this as a favor to my former self, and to the current versions of those students with whom I worked, all of us who wander around empty dining halls in November, wondering what, exactly, we’re missing. The extra time gives my students more options: potentially cheaper flights, a little less debt on that credit card, a little more flexibility should they find themselves so lonely that three more weeks to winter break feels like forever. Now that I look back, I don’t mind that I learned about Thanksgiving the hard way because it let me reinvent the holiday for myself. I do it differently almost every year. I have celebrated in Duluth, Minn. (my first Thanksgiving with white Americans, where I brought tostones, which no one ate); in San Francisco (at a restaurant where someone else paid and someone’s drunk grandma asked what kind of pies I liked to make); and in Champaign, Ill. (where I ate enchiladas with a bunch of stranded graduate students and watched the 2001 Bollywood cricket epic “Lagaan”). This year, I’ll be celebrating with neighbors here in Lincoln. I am perfecting a recipe for pumpkin flan, which a friend from Iowa recently suggested I call “pumpkin custard” so that the Nebraskans will try it. “They don’t know flan,” she warned. So fine, I’ll explain that flan is a lot like custard, but only if anyone feels the need to ask. Because there will also be green bean casserole, and though it’s not something I know, I’ve learned to try it. And if for whatever reasons no one wants to eat flan, that’s also fine. I always bring my own Tupperware. College taught me that, too.