DETROIT — Last year I published a book, “Blood in the Water,” that offered the first comprehensive account of the uprising at New York’s Attica Correctional Facility in 1971 and its legacy. Though this protest against systematic abuse and abysmal living conditions — in which nearly 1,300 prisoners took over the facility, and law enforcement ultimately shot 128 men, killing 39 — was a cultural and political touchstone of the 1970s, much of the story was covered up. Attica is a public institution, but its records are not easily accessible. With no statute of limitations on murder, state officials had much to protect. So I had to dig, for 13 years, to uncover what had really happened. But even more than a decade of research didn’t turn up everything. Recently I received a message from a freelance writer, Eric Beaumont, who had a question about a paragraph in my book that mentioned a doctor conducting experiments at Attica on prisoners. It read:  The doctor knew that he needed volunteers for his ongoing research, but finding a stable population of volunteers was “not easy,” therefore he was most grateful when he got permission to use Attica’s men. Because becoming a test subject offered the men in Attica some needed money, more than a few agreed to be exposed to the test virus. Although the doctor made sure the prisoners signed an informed consent agreement, as he later conceded, one “could argue about how informed they were.”  Who was this doctor, Mr. Beaumont asked, and did I know anything more about the experiments that he had been conducting? I could at least answer the first question easily. The physician’s name was Michael W. Brandriss. However, despite having filed numerous Freedom of Information Act requests with the National Institutes of Health, as well as with the hospitals and the New York Department of Corrections that allowed him to work on their premises, I could never establish what exactly Dr. Brandriss was testing. The next day, Mr. Beaumont messaged me again. He had found an article from a 1972 medical journal, written by Dr. Brandriss and two other physicians. Its title: “An Evaluation of Transfer Factor as Immunotherapy for Patients with Lepromatous Leprosy.” At first glance, it seemed to me that this had little bearing on Attica. In an interview that Dr. Brandriss had given on conducting experiments at Attica, he had said that his research was on a virus, and leprosy isn’t caused by a virus. More to the point, it was hard to imagine that any man in Attica would have been comfortable participating in a medical test that had to do with something as awful as leprosy. I should have known better. As the fine print of that 1972 article read: “We are indebted to the inmates of the Attica Correctional Facility who participated in this study and to the warden and his administration for their help and cooperation.” This esteemed physician, a man working for two of New York’s most respected hospitals and receiving generous research funding from the N.I.H., was indeed conducting leprosy experiments at Attica. But which of Attica’s nearly 2,400 prisoners, I wondered, was the subject of experiments relating to this crippling disease, without, as Dr. Brandriss admitted, adequate consent? Might it have been the 19-year-old who was at Attica because he had sliced the top of a neighbor’s convertible? Or a man imprisoned there for more serious offenses? Either way, no jury had sentenced them to being a guinea pig in any experiment relating to a disease as painful and disfiguring as leprosy. And what about the hundreds of corrections officers and civilian employees working at Attica? Even if no one in this extremely crowded facility was actually exposed to this dreaded disease, one in which “prolonged close contact” with an infected patient is a most serious risk factor, were these state employees at all informed that medical experiments being conducted on the men in their charge? This is not the first time prisons have allowed secret medical experiments on those locked inside. A 1998 book on Holmesburg Prison in Pennsylvania revealed that a doctor there, Albert Kligman, had been experimenting on prisoners for years. After the book appeared, nearly 300 former prisoners sued him, the University of Pennsylvania and the manufacturers of the substances to which they had been exposed, but none of the defendants was held accountable. Dr. Brandriss died in 2008, and it’s unclear whether the men, even if they could be identified, were at any real risk from the experiments he had been authorized to conduct on them. But this latest revelation is a wake-up call for all of us. Prisons are public institutions, and we must insist on knowing what takes place behind the walls. It is past time for New York finally to open all of its records on Attica. In my experience, that’s unlikely to happen — New York, like all states, is well aware that many horrors take place in its prisons, and thus it fears the consequences of shining too bright a light on the inside. Instead, we will just have to wait for yet another headline to tell us of yet another horror unfolding within America’s 6,215 penal institutions. As long as we allow prisons to operate without meaningful oversight — with none of us able to see over the walls and with no real power to hold state officials responsible when the human beings in their care are abused — those headlines will remain ugly indeed.