This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. This week is one of the busiest travel periods of the year. About 50 million Americans — almost one in six — will travel at least 50 miles over Thanksgiving weekend, according to AAA, and millions more will take shorter trips to visit family or friends. Given how much time we’ll be spending in cars this week, I’ve devoted my column to a disturbing fact I recently learned: The United States now has the most dangerous roads in the industrialized world. The fatality rate (per miles driven) is more than twice as high as in Britain or Sweden, and about 40 percent higher than in Canada or Australia. And this isn’t one of those situations in which the United States has long been an outlier — as is the case with, say, guns or the death penalty. As recently as 1990, this country had a lower vehicle fatality rate than many of those other countries. What happened? That’s the subject of my column. As depressing as the situation is, I’m also optimistic that it’s about to get better. The column also explains the reasons for hope. Affirmative-action baby. “But as a white man graduating from an Ivy League school, I also had the right sort of identity. It was difficult to disentangle the two. And I didn’t really try.” That’s Peter Beinart, in a piece for The Atlantic called “Reflections of an Affirmative Action Baby.” In it, Beinart looks back on his time at The New Republic, one of the many institutions that allowed sexual harassment to fester for years. Also: “With all the focus on abuse in high profile industries, sexual predation among the most exposed and powerless workers, like hotel maids, gets overlooked,” writes Lydia Polgreen, the editor of HuffPost, which has a new exposé on this topic. Middle-class tax increase, continued. The worst part of the Republican tax plans is the tax increase on truly middle-class families — those making, say, $50,000 to $100,000. But the most politically damaging part of the plans may be the tax increases on the upper-middle-class: those making between, say, $100,000 and $200,000. David Weigel of The Washington Post has a dispatch from New Hampshire, focusing on suburban unhappiness about the tax plan. I think the Republican Party has backed itself into a bad spot on taxes, as I explained in yesterday’s Sunday Review: Its choice now appears to be between passing a dreadful piece of policy and looking incapable of passing any major one.