Before doctors in Flint, Mich., knew they were dealing with a crisis of lead poisoning, there were warning signs of a problem with the water supply. The doctors just didn’t know what to do with them — including Dr. Mona Hanna-Attisha, the pediatrician credited with uncovering the widespread lead poisoning afflicting that city. She said Flint was exposed to a “toxic soup” for 18 months — with drinking water violations for nine of those months — but no one knew exactly what was in the soup, or more important, what the soup was doing to the health of the people drinking it. “We knew other things were in this water, but we didn’t do anything because nobody knew what to do about them,” she said. Officials had been advising residents concerned about one group of chemicals, called trihalomethanes, to ask their doctors for advice; the chemicals were elevated for months because of heavy disinfection treatment and are possibly carcinogenic. “And the doctors’ groups in Flint were like, ‘What do we know about total trihalomethanes? We don’t know what to tell people!’ ” The medical community’s slow response to the water contamination in Flint is a symptom of what Dr. Hanna-Attisha calls one of the largest deficits in the field of medicine today — the omission of environmental factors, like air and water quality, in the way that doctors talk to patients about their health. The long-term influence of the environment on our health has been a growing focus of environmental and health researchers in recent decades: scientists have shown that lead causes brain damage; bisphenol A and phthalates disrupt the endocrine system, impairing fertility and reproductive processes; some pesticides and flame retardants cause cancer and interfere with brain development in fetuses and children. Yet these variables remain largely overlooked in medical practice. Few doctors, for example, think to ask patients if they use a water filter at home, if they store food in plastic containers or glass, or if their children’s bedding contains flame retardants. That oversight begins in medical schools, which in the United States barely mention environmental factors beyond some acute scenarios like lead poisoning. Last year, Lynne Heilbrun, a researcher at the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, introduced “Medicine and the Environment,” a new course at the medical school that aims to change this situation. It could fill what environmental health experts and the Association of American Medical Colleges say is a significant gap in how doctors are trained to assess and treat patients. The course, an elective, covers the health impacts from chronic exposure to common chemicals and includes house calls for students to assess chemicals found in local residents’ homes, such as cancer-causing compounds used in perfume fragrances, body lotions and plug-in air fresheners, as well as the threats posed by them. The students are then assigned to write an action plan for the families to reduce their exposure. Ms. Heilbrun said they often recommend avoiding fragranced products, using natural cleaners like baking soda and vinegar instead of harsher, toxic products, and replacing any pesticides used for indoor pests with traps or baits. One of the few other schools to integrate environmental health into its medical school coursework is the University of California, San Francisco. There, environmental health is now a mandatory part of the curriculum for all medical students. As the water crisis in Flint illustrated, many patients don’t realize how much environmental factors could be affecting their health. Some patients have the knowledge or resources to seek specialists on their own, but many do not. “Most people’s interactions with the health care system is with their doctors, and it’s really important that doctors be aware of how the environment can influence health,” said Tracey Woodruff, director of the UCSF Program on Reproductive Health and the Environment. She said the school added the environmental component to the curriculum because of the evidence that exists, but also because of the evidence that doesn’t exist yet. “The government does not require testing of chemicals for health effects,” she said. “There are lots of data gaps in the science. So it is important, but there is also some detective work that physicians have to do to adequately address it.” In Flint, Dr. Hanna-Attisha says asthma is one of the most common things she and colleagues treat in children, and the environment plays, or should play, a central role in those conversations. “If we don’t ask about their air quality and their exposures, we’re just Band-Aiding these issues, and they’re just going to come back and come back until we address the fundamental causes,” she said. With such a rapidly evolving environment and chemical exposures changing all the time, asthma and lead poisoning are among the most well-understood conditions; impacts of other substances are not as well known. The quantity of environmental research that already exists, let alone new studies published every week or month, can be hard to keep up with. Dr. Hanna-Attisha says all doctors don’t need to become environmental health experts; they should just have a baseline understanding of how to evaluate a person’s full picture of health, including the environment, and be able to refer a patient to a specialist when necessary. “The goal is not to make experts,” she said. “We don’t want to make experts, but we do want to know when people need a referral.” Ms. Heilbrun first aspired to begin her class on medicine and the environment after her own experience with a chemical, which she believes is what caused developmental delays in both of her sons. She had used a pesticide, chlorpyrifos, to treat a flea infestation when she was unknowingly pregnant in the early 1990s. (Chlorpyrifos has since been recognized as a neurotoxin and was banned by the Environmental Protection Agency from home use in 2000.) Last year, E.P.A. scientists recommended banning it from agricultural use, but Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A. administrator, denied that petition earlier this year. Ms. Heilbrun cannot prove chlorpyrifos was the cause of her sons’ delays. But she has spoken with health experts around the country over the last decade and believes it was, based on their assessments, and because of the timing of the exposures and the onset of symptoms. Ms. Heilbrun said she had her home tested four years after she last sprayed chlorpyrifos — and after an environmental cleanup — and levels of the chemical were still dangerously high, at a level that independent research has associated with neurodevelopmental disorders in children whose mothers were exposed during pregnancy. Interest in the environmental health class has been growing in San Antonio, at both the university’s medical and nursing schools, where the course is being offered at the request of the dean. Interest is also spreading nationwide. Dr. Hanna-Attisha believes interest is growing because students have been demanding it; they want to be able to look at their patients’ full picture of health, including the environment, and social and behavioral factors as well. No data is available on how many environment-related diagnoses may be overlooked, partly because environmental health is such a complex, slow-moving field. “Sometimes you don’t see the consequences for generations,” Hanna-Attisha said. “Look at thalidomide. The moms who took it were O.K.; it wasn’t until the babies were born that you saw the consequences.” Health experts have also pointed to weak chemical regulations; only a fraction of the 80,000-plus chemicals registered for use today have been tested for safety. “We are exposed to lots of them, but most we don’t know about because of lax government laws. What we do know is that childhood illnesses are skyrocketing — diabetes, obesity, ADHD, autism,” Dr. Woodruff said. At the University of California, San Francisco, Dr. Woodruff said that in addition to the mandatory training introduced this year, the school plans to find other ways to integrate the study of environmental influences on health with other aspects of the curriculum. When a class is focused on respiratory health, for example, she said they’ll make sure air pollution is part of the discussion. One fourth-year medical student, Brian Mugleston, took the class in medicine and the environment at the University of Texas last year and can already see how the class will make a difference in his practice as a doctor. “In basic medical education,” he said, “we think about many different drugs, toxic substances — especially in emergency medicine — and we think about poisonings. What this course made me consider is more long-term exposure.” Dr. Woodruff said that at her campus, while the environmental health component will include the known health impacts of a range of chemicals, the larger goal is to get students thinking more critically about the wide-ranging interactions between the environment and health. That means keeping up with the science, evaluating the quality of research, and dealing with an ever-increasing number of unknowns. “We take an oath when we graduate from medical school, and we swear that we are going to stand up for our patients,” Dr. Hanna-Attisha said. “It is not our job to sit silent in our lab, in our clinics, in our classrooms and to go about our daily business when we see environmental health and other injustices around us. It is our job, as physicians, very much to be that voice and advocate for our community.”