Bret Stephens: I know we won’t end this conversation without a discussion of a certain candidate for the United States Senate from the Yellowhammer state. And yes, that’s a “Jeopardy!” answer for our readers. First, though, I wanted to mention how impressed I was by three recent columns by our colleagues Maureen Dowd, Ross Douthat and Michelle Goldberg. Each of them has written a powerful reappraisal of the pass that many liberals gave to Bill Clinton during his impeachment saga, and the consequences of that pass as we enter the #MeToo era. What do you think? Were liberals too soft on President Clinton back then, and how has that shaped the culture since? Gail Collins: Totally agree about the great writing by Michelle, Maureen and Ross. And I’ve been thinking about the Clinton-to-Roy-Moore matter constantly. Particularly about the bottom line when it comes to private versus public behavior. Imagine there’s a big election coming up, and one of the candidates is a guy with a terrible reputation for sexual misdeeds. And the other is a family man who spends his spare time building housing for the poor, who never even dated anybody before his wife of 35 years. But the hound dog is as close as a politician has ever come to supporting your exact hopes and dreams when it comes to both domestic policy and international affairs. And the man of honor is running on all the ideas you hate: say, a platform of doubling domestic spending and paying for it with new taxes on business. Plus he hangs out with every foreign leader who gives you nightmares. Which way would you go? Bret: I’m a big believer in the importance of character when it comes to any executive position, the presidency most of all. It’s one of the reasons I’ve opposed President Trump so strenuously. This is particularly true in my arguments with the conservatives who have shrugged at most of the president’s character defects because they agree with him on court nominees, or the Iran deal, or tax cuts or whatever. Policy decisions are always reversible. Trump’s moral defects are a permanent stain on the presidency itself. By the way, imagine if Clinton had been removed from office. Al Gore (in his centrist political incarnation) would have become president, presiding over the same Goldilocks economy that served Clinton so well. As an incumbent he would probably have sailed to election in his own right in 2000. Later, John McCain (minus Sarah Palin) might have won the presidency instead of George W. Bush, Barack Obama might have succeeded him — and Trump would never have been president. Doesn’t sound like such a bad counterfactual, doesn’t it? Gail: The Al Gore argument is pretty compelling. And it’s definitely possible that one reason the Democrats lost the presidency was because Hillary Clinton brought back all those bad Bill memories. Alabama is complicated because Roy Moore is so revolting both morally and politically — as Senator Jeff Flake said, way before the sex-assault arguments arose, you cannot support a person who talks about Muslims and gay people the way Moore does. But I’m not giving up on my policy-versus-character quandary. In 1980, the Christian right happily elected the first divorced president over Jimmy Carter, the deeply religious, loyal family man — because Ronald Reagan was going to do the stuff they wanted. We had a much different system of electing presidents back in 1800, but a lot of the people who voted for Thomas Jefferson most definitely knew he had a slave for a mistress. Bret: Listen, America would have been a better place if only John Adams had won the election of 1800. And at the rate we’re going, I think we might be well-served by a new Federalist Party to replace the Republicans. Gail: I think you’ve come up with a cause for the new year. Bring back the Federalists! There’s a reason Alexander Hamilton is all the rage. Bret: Roy Moore is what Republicans get — and what they deserve — when they abandon mainstream Republicanism for populism, and when they renounce the idea that good moral character is a requirement of high political office. It’s also what happens when the only thing one cares about, politically speaking, is to elect people you know will vote your way. Did you notice the Rev. Franklin Graham defending Moore by saying his accusers are “guilty of doing much worse”? For him, it’s all about putting a Christianist in the Senate, even if that Christianist molests teenagers. If Republicans know what’s good for them, they should be praying for Moore’s Democratic opponent, Doug Jones, to win the special election next month by a landslide. Only that will teach them the lesson they’ve so far refused to learn from Trump. Gail: Once again our shared Trumpophobia is getting us to the same place. You know, another interesting thing about the many variations of political sex scandals is that it puts an added burden on social conservatives. A lot harder to excuse sins of the flesh if you’re the guy who built his career around a gigantic Ten Commandments monument. And if that leaves Roy Moore at an unfair disadvantage, I’d have to say it couldn’t have happened to a better guy. Bret: Biblical, you might say. Here’s my question for you: Democrats seem to have turned a corner with big wins at the state level this month in Virginia and New Jersey. A lot of that comes from growing public exhaustion with Trump. But how do you think Democrats can capitalize on these wins going into 2018? Because, other than opposition to all things Donald, I don’t really understand what the Democratic Party stands for these days. Gail: Yeah, there’s a lot of debate about whether the Dems should have a go-for-it platform or try to play it safe and just run against Trump. And to be honest, I don’t see anything super-specific coming out until there’s a presidential candidate. We should have about 90 contenders, so there’s plenty of time for debate. In the meantime, the Virginia election in particular has shown that there’s more than negativity to anti-Trumpism. Many people voted for the principle that we’re all in this together, that nobody is unwelcome because of their race or religion or sexual orientation. And that victory for basic civility takes us a long way. You’re in Germany right now, yes? Speaking of countries that are careening around, what the heck is going on there? Bret: I’m in Hamburg, the country’s best city (albeit with pretty much the worst soccer team, as my son likes to remind me). The short answer to your question is coalition politics. Angela Merkel, the chancellor of the past 12 years, emerged from September’s federal elections with a much smaller plurality than she’d had in her last government. She tried to form a government with the free-market-oriented Free Democrats and the ecologically conscious Greens, but the ideological differences between them were just too great. And since the center-left Social Democrats refuse to join her government, it means the country will either have a fresh election or a minority government. The larger and more worrisome answer is that the political center in Germany is growing weaker while the fringes grow stronger. The big winner in the last election was the far-right Alternative for Germany party, which resembles France’s National Front in its xenophobic and fascist impulses. The Left party, whose origins lie partly with the old East German Communists, is also gaining strength. In other words, the same centrifugal forces that are tearing at the politics of the United States and Britain are also being felt in Europe’s most important country. It isn’t a happy picture to contemplate on the eve of Thanksgiving. Speaking of which, what are you feeling thankful for this year? Gail: Always good to stick with the personal stuff — friends and family and just enough folding chairs to give everybody room to eat. If I had to be political, maybe the cranky Republican senators. And the many, many government employees working around the world to keep Americans safe without demanding personal thanks every time they get somebody out of a Chinese jail for shoplifting. How about you? Bret: I always try to keep it simple: family, health, friends, the Seahawks. You know, life’s indispensable basics.