Even though there’s been nothing subtle about the current push to fill dozens of judicial vacancies kept open by the Republican-controlled Senate during the final years of the Obama administration, a document now making the rounds inside the Beltway is head-snapping. It is a proposal by a leading conservative constitutional scholar to double or even triple the number of authorized judgeships on the federal Courts of Appeals, now fixed by law at 179. Why so many, and why now? The author, Steven G. Calabresi, a law professor at Northwestern University, a founder and the current board chairman of the conservative Federalist Society, declares his goal boldly: “undoing the judicial legacy of President Barack Obama.” The 37-page document is styled as a “Memorandum to the Senate and the House of Representatives.” On one level, it tells us little that we don’t already know: that the Republicans, seemingly unable to accomplish much of anything else, are desperate to gain control of the federal courts. Sure, President Franklin D. Roosevelt failed 80 years ago with his plan to remake the Supreme Court to his liking by adding up to six new justices. But that’s evidently no reason not to aim just a little lower with a court-packing plan for the federal appeals and trial courts. (Professor Calabresi also advocates adding 185 District Court judgeships to the current 673.) There is something bracing about the naked activism of a leader of a movement that has spent the past generation railing against judicial activism. In his memorandum, Professor Calabresi explains that when President Obama came into office, 10 of the 13 federal appeals courts had majorities of Republican-appointed judges. By the time the Obama administration ended eight years later, that number had shrunk to four, with results that Professor Calabresi regards as calamitous. Calling out individual Democratic-appointed judges by name, he gives as examples last year’s decision by the Fourth Circuit invalidating North Carolina’s voter ID requirement, and a decision by the federal appeals court in Washington rejecting challenges to the Federal Communications Commission’s net neutrality rule, as “another instance of the administrative state run amok.” In ordinary times, one might expect a document like this to be passed quietly among like-minded Capitol Hill staff members. But conservatives these days put their cards on the table. Professor Calabresi posted a link to his memorandum on National Review’s website and uploaded it to the Social Science Research Network, a widely used web-based index of newly published scholarship. I learned of it from a post by Ian Millhiser on the liberal Think Progress website. And the memo does have a scholarly cast, consisting of a lengthy discourse about a purported “caseload crisis” that has led judges to take quality-compromising procedural shortcuts like delegating work to staff members, omitting oral argument, and writing casual “unpublished” opinions that decide the case at hand without setting a precedent for other cases. Since 1990, Professor Calabresi argues, Congress has added no new seats to the appeals courts and only a few dozen to the district courts, while caseloads have grown. Thus, “the need for a new judgeship bill can be justified by the crisis in volume,” he writes, adding: “One of the most straightforward ways for Republicans to address this problem is to make the case for a new judgeship bill that would enable the president to appoint a sufficient number of new judges that would help to change the balance of power of each of the circuit courts back to a conservative majority.” But here’s a slight problem with the argument intended to provide a neutral-sounding cover for the political project: There is no workload crisis. To validate my impression that judicial caseloads have been flat for years, I consulted Russell Wheeler, a political scientist at the Brookings Institution who is one of the country’s leading authorities on federal judicial administration. He pointed me to official charts showing that for the last decade, new appeals filed with the circuit courts have hovered in the high 50,000s to around 60,000 — sometimes a little more, sometimes a little less, but on a graph, basically a straight line. “What strikes me is how little change there has been,” Mr. Wheeler said. “If the courts are in a crisis in 2017, why weren’t they in 2011 or 2007, and where were the calls from the right for creating new judgeships?” Indeed, the Judicial Conference of the United States, a group of 26 judges headed by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. that sets policy for the federal courts, takes a much more tempered view of the workload issue. For years, the conference has asked Congress to create new judgeships. Its latest request, last March, was modest. While asking for five new appellate judgeships, it recommended that the next vacancy on the Tenth Circuit not be filled, “based on consistently low filings.” The Judicial Conference asked for 52 new District Court positions, but recommended not filling the next vacancy on the District Court in Wyoming for the same reason. Professor Calabresi has an explanation for this outbreak of modesty. The Judicial Conference “suffers from a severe bias,” he writes. “The prestige and power associated with being an Article III federal judge goes down if a large number of new federal court judgeships are created. This causes the Judicial Conference to continuously ask for the creation of fewer new judgeships than we really need.” (Article III of the Constitution creates the federal judiciary and is the source of federal judges’ life tenure.) While the leaders of the federal judiciary hardly need me to defend their dignity, I’ll just say that it’s hard to think of a more demeaning appraisal of how these judges approach their jobs. Why bother to call attention to a proposal that’s unlikely to make any legislative headway? After all, don’t both sides play judicial politics? Yes, Democrats do too, to a degree. But the Democratic left was furious with the Obama administration for its diffident approach to filling judicial vacancies. There has never been anything like the weaponizing of the federal judiciary that is currently taking place. Seventeen of President Trump’s 18 nominees to the federal appeals courts are connected to the Federalist Society. Donald McGahn, the White House counsel, joked at the Federalist Society’s annual convention in Washington last week that it was “completely false” that the Trump administration was outsourcing to the group the task of finding judicial nominees. “I’ve been a member of the Federalist Society since law school,” Mr. McGahn said. “Still am, so frankly it seems like it’s been in-sourced.” Before now, the most concerted effort to redirect the federal courts came during the Reagan administration, which placed an impressive group of conservative law professors and other intellectuals on the appeals courts. But the most consequential Reagan nomination, that of Robert Bork to the Supreme Court, failed. It’s possible today, a generation later, to see a playing out of the Bork battle, carried on by those too young to have taken part back in 1987 but who came of age in the belief that their hero was dealt a mighty injustice. And certainly we would be living in a much different constitutional universe had Robert Bork been sitting in the Supreme Court seat that went instead to Anthony Kennedy. In my reporting days, I tried periodically to get my colleagues to break the journalistic habit of identifying federal judges by the president who appointed them. It was just wrong to imply to readers that judges who were simply doing their job as they thought best were carrying water for their political sponsors, I would argue. I never made much headway. I’m not sure I would make the same effort today. A weaponized judiciary poses real dangers to the legitimacy of the federal courts, and there’s no point in pretending otherwise. The newest Supreme Court justice, Neil Gorsuch, was the featured speaker at last week’s Federalist Society convention. Accompanied by Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., Justice Gorsuch gave a half-hour long speech that could be boiled down to a phrase: “I’m your man.” He said: “Tonight I can report, a person can be both a committed originalist and textualist and be confirmed to the Supreme Court of the United States. Thank you from the bottom of my heart for your support and prayers through that process.” Last month, during the argument in the Wisconsin gerrymander case, Chief Justice Roberts worried aloud that if the court involved itself in the nitty-gritty of redistricting, with rulings that favored one party or the other, people would conclude that the justices were acting politically, “and that is going to cause very serious harm to the status and integrity of the decisions of this court in the eyes of the country.” Justice Gorsuch received standing ovations before and after he spoke. Chief Justice Roberts wasn’t there. Wherever he was, I’m willing to bet he wasn’t cheering.