This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. I want to start this Thanksgiving edition of the newsletter with a short story about The New York Times. The Times, like the rest of the media, is suffering from a drop in advertising. Print advertising is shrinking, and much of the new digital ad revenue is flowing to only two companies, Facebook and Google. The Times’s ad business remains robust relative to the competition, but it’s not immune. Our print advertising revenue dropped 16 percent — or $43 million — during the first nine months of this year, compared with the same period in 2016. A rise in digital advertising — of $23 million — wasn’t enough to make up for the decline. But something else was more than big enough to make up for the decline: Subscribers. Revenue from digital-only subscriptions jumped 44 percent — or $75 million — in the first nine months of this year, compared to the same period last year. (And print subscriptions remain strong. So don’t worry, print subscribers: The newspaper isn’t going away. It’s still a great technology.) In practical terms, Times subscribers are increasingly paying for Times journalism. If you’re a subscriber, you are helping to pay for the investigations of the Trump administration and Harvey Weinstein, for the correspondents and photographers bearing witness around the world, for the interactive graphics, podcasts and videos, for the expert journalists covering culture, business, government and — as seems worth emphasizing today — food. “We’re a reader-supported institution, driven by people like you, who believe in truth and independence, rigor and fact,” as Jodi Kantor, one of the reporters who broke the culture-changing Weinstein story, recently wrote to readers. Or as my fellow columnist Nick Kristof has written: “We sometimes fall short — and I hope you’ll tell us when we screw up — but it’s never been more crucial that we play the role of a serious watchdog.” So thank you. It’s a privilege for my colleagues and me to be part of your eyes and ears on the world. I especially want to thank all of you who read this newsletter, including those who frequently write to me with their thoughts. Happy Thanksgiving to all of you. In The Times. My colleagues have put together a selection of Thanksgiving-themed pieces from our archives. It includes Frank Bruni on his family’s Italian-American celebration; Jennifer Finney Boylan on her first Thanksgiving away from home; a 2014 blog post on how the Civil War created the national holiday; and two pieces from the latest Sunday Review: one on intuitive eating and one on staying on campus during break. Also, on Facebook yesterday, Frank Bruni and Bari Weiss talked about politics at Thanksgiving.