This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Holiday shopping. As you read this, people are jostling each other in stores across the land. I have a different suggestion for holiday shopping: Buy a subscription — for yourself or as a gift — to a publication that does great work and that needs more help than, say, The New York Times. The Times is thriving, as I explained yesterday, but not all publications have the financial advantages we do. And some of these publications do vital work that a democracy needs. They provide local and regional coverage. Or they focus on a specific subject. Or they write about the world from a particular perspective. Below is a list of publications I recommend that you consider. It includes some reader recommendations, too, and of course this isn’t intended to be a complete list. (Readers sent in more 1,000 recommendations this week, and I plan to check out many more than I’ve listed here.) At the bottom, I’ve also listed some excellent free publications, some of which have subscription options. Local coverage. This is my No. 1 recommendation: Support a source of local journalism in your area. Research has shown that an absence of local coverage may lead to increased corruption — and local journalism is under tremendous financial strain. One option is your traditional local newspaper. Another is newer sources. In your emails to me, you praised Vermont’s VT Digger, The Texas Tribune and the New Mexico Political Report, among many others. A third option is your local public-radio station. If none of these intrigues you, you can also consider subscribing to a regional publication from elsewhere with national relevance. Every time I read it, I’m impressed by The Dallas Morning News — and Texas is full of big stories, like immigration, education and the future of American politics. The Los Angeles Times will let you follow the center of the Trump resistance: California. The Denver Post, Star Tribune of Minneapolis, Tampa Bay Times and Boston Globe are all strong regional papers. The single most common suggestion from readers falls into the broad category of regional news: High Country News. As one newsletter reader, Suzanne, explained to me: The name is “not a reference to marijuana.” Instead, “‘High Country’ is an older term for the Western U.S.” The publication covers land use, climate, wildfires and many other issues. I started reading this week and will become a regular. Tech, media and business. Ben Thompson’s newsletter, Stratechery, is one of the most interesting sources of analysis on any subject. Policy. For decades, The Washington Monthly was a famous training ground for policy journalists, and it remains excellent. It also takes a social-justice approach to college rankings. Conservative ideas. The Republican Party controls every branch of the federal government and most state governments, yet conservatism is in crisis. The Republican Party doesn’t know what to do with its power. If you want to be reminded of the intellectual side of conservatism, consider reading National Affairs, a cross between a magazine and a journal. Liberal ideas. A similar publication on the left is Democracy. I receive the paper version and am always happy to find it in my mailbox. Baseball. I’ve mentioned Joe Sheehan’s baseball newsletter before, and, if you’re a fan, it ranks with Stratechery for consistent sharpness. Mentioning it again here allows me to close this section by quoting Sheehan’s favorite line about media: “Individuals will recognize and support quality if given that option.” Free media (some of which have pay options): Law: Lawfare was another common recommendation from newsletter readers and provides some of the best analysis of Russia and other Trump scandals; and The Marshall Project, run by a former executive editor of The Times, focuses on the moral outrage (my words) of mass imprisonment, among other issues. Policy: ProPublica, a source of important investigative work; Vox, which is one of my favorite publications of any kind, thanks to work by Dara Lind, Sarah Kliff, Dylan Matthews and others there; Slate, an early model of clearly written analytical journalism and more recently the creator of a successful podcast network; and Axios, the new venture that several of you praised — and I agree — for its daily succinctness. Health care: Kaiser Health News, which does a lot of local journalism in addition to its national policy work, and Stat, a new entrant created by The Boston Globe. Higher education: The Chronicle of Higher Education and Inside Higher Ed, both of which have daily newsletters. Sports and pop culture: The Ringer. Founded by Bill Simmons, who was forced out of ESPN, The Ringer employs top-notch young writers (and the middle-age ones are good, too). As I said, this is not close to a complete list. And the larger point isn’t any specific publication. In the next few weeks, I hope you’ll consider financially supporting a publication that you appreciate. In the old days, advertising played that role, but the world has changed. The full Opinion report from The Times follows.