Eleven years ago, a Federal District Court judge in Washington concluded after a nine-month trial that cigarette makers had committed fraud and violated racketeering statutes in a decades-long conspiracy to deceive the public about the dangers of smoking. Judge Gladys Kessler didn’t mince words, ruling that Philip Morris and other tobacco companies had “marketed and sold their lethal product with zeal, with deception, with a single-minded focus on their financial success, and without regard for the human tragedy or social costs that success exacted.” She subsequently ordered the nation’s four largest cigarette makers to make certain “corrective statements,” basically admissions that they had lied and defrauded the public about the harms of their products and the mythic benefits of light and low-tar cigarettes, which the companies knew were just as dangerous as regular cigarettes. On Sunday and Monday, newspapers and television networks will begin carrying five “corrective statements” ordered by the court. Altria, R. J. Reynolds, Lorillard and Philip Morris will be required to run statements between 7 and 10 p.m. five times a week on weekdays for one year on CBS, NBC and ABC; the statements will also appear in full-page ads on five Sundays between now and March in more than 50 leading newspapers. This could be eye-opening for those who remain uninformed about the catastrophic maladies caused by smoking; the truth certainly bears repeating. Cigarettes remain the nation’s leading preventable cause of death, killing 1,200 Americans daily, more than “from murder, AIDS, suicide, drugs, car crashes and alcohol combined,” as one of the statements says. Another notes that “there is no safe cigarette” and that all “cause cancer, lung disease, heart attacks and premature death.” Yet another says: “Cigarette companies intentionally designed cigarettes with enough nicotine to create and sustain addiction.” It adds: “It’s not easy to quit.” In what sense, though, are those statements “corrective?” And what wrongs are they supposed to be putting right? Judge Kessler originally ordered each set of statements to begin with a notice that cigarette makers had “deliberately deceived the American public” about the dangers of smoking. But as a result of legal appeals by the companies, we will hear only that “A federal court has ordered” the companies to “make this statement about the health effects of smoking.” There is no mention of the industry’s long campaign of deception, nothing about what is actually being “corrected.” The viewer or reader might not even realize that the point is to correct the industry’s lies with the truth. Cigarette makers have always been good at turning lemons into lemonade; that is why they employ armies of lawyers. Delay is a time-tested strategy; this is expressed in the industry’s internal documents. In the Tobacco Institute’s notorious “Roper Proposal” from 1972, we find the cartel musing on how, “for nearly 20 years, this industry has employed a single strategy to defend itself on three major fronts — litigation, politics and public opinion.” The memo adds that the “brilliantly conceived and executed” plan “has always been a holding strategy, consisting of creating doubt about the health charge without actually denying it.” For an industry with billions in annual sales, with eternal threats from lawsuits and regulation, one can understand the incentives to avoid any kind of adverse admission. Cigarette makers worked hard to defang Judge Kessler’s corrective statements, and eventually obtained a court order to remove all references to industry deception or culpability. What’s crucial to appreciate is that the corrective statements are not being issued voluntarily. And nowhere in the statements do the companies acknowledge the truth of what they are saying. In this sense, the statements are not really even admissions. Judge Kessler’s original order had required them to be prefaced by a clear “Here is the truth.” That requirement is now gone. If we were dealing with an honest industry, the deaths, intentional addictions and lies would have been admitted decades ago. We would hear an apology for the conspiracy that began at a meeting of cigarette companies’ chief executives at the Plaza Hotel in New York on Dec. 14, 1953. Instead, what we have are forced statements, with no sense of the good faith one would expect from an industry selling an honest product. Corrective statements? It’s more like yet another legal maneuver. I guess one could say that it is good for the public to hear yet again about the facts about smoking that were long known by the industry and which are now public health truisms. But for the industry itself not to own these truths shows once again how far these kings of concealment and disinformation are from admitting the truth. ☐