This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. First, this week may decide the outcome of the Trump tax bill — a huge, deficit-increasing tax cut for the wealthy that also raises taxes on a lot of middle-class families. My column this morning looks at the small number of Republican senators whose votes will be decisive. Any three of them can likely defeat the bill. I count seven whose own stated principles are violated by this bill, and all seven seem to be wrestling with their decision. Party vs. principle, continued. The Democratic Party now has two members of Congress facing detailed, credible accusations of sexual harassment: Al Franken and John Conyers. The party has been too slow to deal with both. Yesterday, Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic leader in the House, gave a disappointing interview on Meet the Press, in which she called Conyers an “icon.” By day’s end, fortunately, she and the party had backed away from him, and he stepped down from his senior post on the House Judiciary Committee. But the slow response was still a bad mistake. “Pelosi’s mealymouthed-ness on this issue may well come back to haunt Democrats if they want to take any kind of moral high ground amid the cascade of sexual-harassment complaints against men in power,” writes New York Magazine’s Benjamin Hart. As The New Republic’s Jeet Heer put it on Twitter, “Nancy Pelosi & congressional Dems don’t seem to understand the Weinstein moment. This will damage the party.” And the slow reaction wasn’t just bad politics. It also had the potential to chill other victims from coming forward. Pelosi touted Conyers’s pro-women votes and dismissed the allegations as thin — “a list of excuses for Conyers that are the very reasons women are afraid to come forward and report sexual harassment in the first place,” argues Vox’s Laura McGann. “Women are standing up at great personal risk to name perpetrators of sexual harassment,” McGann writes. “They’re demanding to be heard. Will the first female speaker of the House hear them?” As for Franken, who tried to explain himself yesterday: I did not think he should immediately resign after the first accusation of harassment. But there are now four, and three of them sound very similar. Unless Democratic leaders have reasons to doubt the allegations against him (and, if so, they should make those reasons public), they should make clear that Franken will not have the party’s support if he chooses to run for re-election in 2020. Worst of all... Roy Moore’s sins are of a different scale, and President Trump is now pushing for Moore’s election to the Senate. In Slate, Will Saletan walks through the overwhelming evidence of Moore’s preying on teenage girls: “Like anyone else accused of wrongdoing, Moore began with a presumption of innocence. But he has forfeited it. His assertions are demonstrably false. Too many witnesses, documents, and self-incriminating statements have discredited him and substantiated the case against him. You can still plead, as Trump does, that voters should look past the allegations because Moore ‘totally denies’ them. But that’s not a serious argument. It’s an excuse to ignore what Moore did.” 