Peter Thiel, Facebook’s first outside investor, once wrote: “Competition is for losers. If you want to create and capture lasting value, look to build a monopoly.” Executives at Facebook, Google and Amazon seem to have taken his blunt advice. If only the Trump administration could be so clear when it comes to its stance on competition. Instead, it has sent a schizophrenic message, which means the few remaining companies with a chance to rival big tech have no way of knowing where the administration stands or what values it will enforce. On the one hand, the F.C.C. has signaled it will eliminate net neutrality, the rule that ensures equal access to the internet for all websites. If this happens, internet service providers like Comcast, Verizon and AT&T will be able to charge extra fees for high-quality streaming and exclude certain content from the all-in data plans they offer. Critics say this move would be devastating to the websites and applications that can’t pay the fees. On the other hand, just a day before the F.C.C. announcement, the Justice Department communicated starkly different values. Announcing its opposition to the proposed merger of Time Warner and AT&T, it used an argument based on the very kind of thinking that’s often used to defend net neutrality: The department made the case that if the merger were allowed to go through, AT&T might favor the Time Warner content it would own post-merger, to the disadvantage of rivals. The incoherence of these conflicting positions on competition is staggering, but this kind of cognitive dissonance is not unique. Don’t forget that the Obama administration — at the behest of Amazon, which controlled almost 80 percent of the online book market — brought an antitrust suit alleging Apple and five publishers colluded on pricing for digital books. That administration did not have a consistent view of media monopoly power that is enforced equally on all parties, and neither does the current one. For instance, internet service providers operate under a totally different set of privacy regulations than the online service providers (like Google and Facebook) that dominate the online advertising market. According to Morgan Stanley, Google and Facebook took an astonishing 85 percent of all new online ad revenue last year. And yet Google spends millions lobbying Congress to prevent any rivals from entering its unique surveillance capitalism business. Essentially, the government is giving a pass to the largest media advertising firms that have no restrictions on consumer privacy, while suing to block potential rival services that operate under strict privacy restrictions. It could be that the notion of net neutrality that the F.C.C. seems determined to jettison should also be applied to media monopolies. When the European Union fined Google $2.7 billion in June for unfairly favoring some of its own services over those of rivals, it was essentially for a violation of neutrality: The union noted that Google was both a service provider (that users could use to conduct searches) and a content provider (that provided its own restaurant, hotel and other product recommendations) and was favoring its own content in search results over that of rivals that also provided recommendations, like Yelp. Of course, being buried deep in Google’s search results or being forced to pay Google for prominent placement hurts smaller firms. This is arguably no less harmful to a business than being forced to pay Verizon for good video quality for its streaming site — the fate that many content producers will meet if net neutrality rules are rolled back under the plan the F.C.C. has hinted at. It is what economists call “rent seeking,” and it is a cancer on any open media system in any context, but the Trump administration doesn’t treat it the same in all contexts. Mr. Trump is nothing if not sensitive to a populist uprising, and the net neutrality decision will probably be opposed on both the left and right. It could be that during the F.C.C.’s comment period, the resistance to overturning net neutrality may be too strong and the ruling will be withdrawn. But that leaves the larger questions unanswered. What exactly would a consistent antitrust policy for the media sector look like? Is it possible to reconcile the conflicting signals from the F.C.C. and the Department of Justice? The answer is that regulators must realize where the real market power lies and use this as the basis for their decisions about competition. Time Warner’s market capitalization is $70 billion. Google is worth 10 times as much, at $723 billion. Turner Broadcasting, Time Warner’s largest advertising subsidiary, brought in $1.2 billion in ad revenue in the last quarter, while Google reported $22.5 billion in ad revenue in the same period. It should be noted that AT&T has almost no appreciable ad revenue. So, if there is to be a coherent approach to competition, the Federal Trade Commission, which regulates Google and Facebook, and the F.C.C., which regulates AT&T, must find common ground on the regulation of ad-supported content networks. For the Trump administration to try to block the merger of two relatively small media players while letting Google operate freely with no privacy restrictions is to be fighting the last war. The notion that television is the major media power in America ignores reality. It may be that the assistant attorney general for antitrust, Makan Delrahim, has a decent case that internet service providers and content providers need some sort of separation. But if that is true, then the same rules on neutrality and consumer privacy need to apply to companies like Google, Facebook and Amazon — and the F.C.C. should keep net neutrality rules in place. The administration can’t have it both ways.