There has been a lot of coverage of how the Republican tax bills would hurt graduate students, low-income students and student loan borrowers. But little has been said about how the legislation could hurt the educational opportunities of veterans — a group of students we cannot ignore. As is, provisions in both the House and Senate target the endowments of private colleges and universities. Endowments are currently tax free, but both bills propose a 1.4 percent excise tax on investment income at private schools with endowments worth at least $250,000 per full-time student. To some, that may not seem so bad on the face of it — right now, it only affects some 60 schools — but many of these schools use their robust endowments to cover partial or full tuition costs for veterans who served after Sept. 11, 2001 as part of the Yellow Ribbon program established by the post-Sept. 11 G.I. bill. Under the post-Sept. 11 G.I. bill, which was signed into law by President George W. Bush and went into effect in 2009, the government covers the full cost of in-state tuition for eligible veterans who attend state schools, but only guarantees about $22,000 toward the annual cost of private institutions, which routinely charge around $50,000 a year. To bridge this funding gap, Congress introduced the Yellow Ribbon program, in which the government matches private school funding toward a veteran’s tuition. University participation in the Yellow Ribbon program is voluntary, so if the excise tax on endowments becomes law, schools could cut back on this essential program. If Republicans pass a tax plan, in other words, they could inadvertently gut a vital reintegration benefit for thousands of veterans. We ask veterans to trade their youth in return for military pay and a set of benefits that will allow them to compete with their civilian peers. The Yellow Ribbon program helps ensure that veterans are not hamstrung by tuition debt while they reintegrate. But support for this program is fragile. If it suddenly becomes financially unfeasible for private colleges, those schools could reduce or revoke it with little notice at the end of an academic year. Veterans should not have their funding cut in the middle of a degree. But more important, veterans need to be able to trust the stability of these programs. According to the Department of Labor, there are more than 2.3 million post-Sept. 11 veterans without bachelor’s degrees. We need seats in private schools all over the country if we hope to educate them. I’m a veteran who served after Sept. 11, and I have worked with alumni at Yale and the University of Chicago to sustain and improve Yellow Ribbon funding. Alarmed at the proposed excise tax, I surveyed the undergraduate divisions of the 60 or so schools that would likely be affected, and almost all of them participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program. The schools are extremely diverse in size, resources, geography and mission. Some could weather a tax on their endowments better than others. At schools like Centenary College in Shreveport, La. — where annual tuition is $35,900, and all Yellow Ribbon-eligible veterans graduate with no tuition costs — the tax could lead to a cap on the number of veterans who can participate in the program, Christopher L. Holoman, the president of the school, told me. Another small school that could be affected by the excise tax is Hollins University in Roanoke, Va. The school has about 800 students, and its endowment supports 40 percent of the operating budget. As is, there is funding for up to 100 Yellow Ribbon participants to graduate without debt. But an excise tax would cause Hollins to reduce its operating budget, and balancing the budget would result in “cuts in institutional scholarships which includes critical programs such as the Yellow Ribbon,” said Pareena G. Lawrence, the president of the university. If schools targeted by the excise tax reduce or eliminate their voluntary Yellow Ribbon contributions, it would establish a damaging precedent. At a time when Congress should work to expand private G.I. bill support, it is trying to destabilize it. Congress should scrap the tax on endowments. But, if it does not, it should give affected schools a 100 percent tax benefit equal to all financial aid recipients, including low-income students and veterans on the G.I. bill. Lately, the legislative process has become reckless, and lawmakers are not examining the very possible consequences of their laws. The injurious and underscrutinized excise tax on endowments is a clear example. Congress passed a G.I. bill in 2009 that depends on the resources of private schools. It shouldn’t make it harder for these schools to support our veterans.