This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. The Republican senators who aren’t yet committed to voting for the tax bill have a huge amount of leverage. They are not using it. Instead, they mostly seem to be folding — accepting vague promises from President Trump (who doesn’t exactly have a good record of keeping his word) and Mitch McConnell. That was Tuesday’s theme on Capitol Hill. Susan Collins, who has said she is worried about the damage the bill will do to health care, no longer seems to be insisting on any legislation to reduce the damage. Bob Corker, who has said he is worried about the deficit, is backing away from his promise to vote against any bill that adds “one penny” to the deficit. Jeff Flake, James Lankford and Jerry Moran, three other senators who have been talking about the deficit, have also shown little sign of backing up their words. And John McCain tweeted criticism of Trump’s insulting behavior during a Native American ceremony but was notably quiet about the tax bill. It’s not too late. The Senate has not voted, and these senators can still stand up for their principles. But this is the time to do so. If they vote to pass the tax bill in exchange for vague promises, they will have forfeited their leverage — and betrayed their stated ideals. What Trump-friendly media are saying. On his Monday show, Sean Hannity attacked Republican senators whose “no” votes could kill the tax plan. Voters “expect a tax reform bill, one that lowers the corporate rate, brings back money and jobs from overseas, that gives a middle-class tax cut,” he said. While conceding that “the bill’s not perfect,” Hannity repeated its defenders’ oft-repeated — and dubious — claim that it would “spur economic growth, hopefully for decades to come.” Other Trump-friendly sources have offered similarly restrained assessments of the Republican tax plan. But they’ve also tried to shield Trump from culpability. The Gateway Pundit’s Jim Hoft declared an early version of the House bill “a mixed bag” but noted that Trump “was hoping for historic tax reform.” Some people “were expecting more from Republicans,” Hoft wrote. “They forgot Paul Ryan is Speaker.” The Gateway has also tried to discredit nonpartisan analyses of the plan’s effects. A recent post by Joe Hoft, Jim’s brother, described the Congressional Budget Office — which released a bruising appraisal of the Senate bill on Sunday — as “politically biased and inaccurate.” (It’s not, for the record.) #thetaxbillhurts. The Times editorial board is undertaking a social-media campaign today to educate people about the tax bill — and lobby against it. You can read some of its recent editorials here and here and follow the campaign on Twitter this morning. North Korea. It test-fired its longest- and highest-flying ballistic missile yesterday, a sign that the East Coast of the United States may be in range. The Times’s Adam Ellick and Jonah Kessel, who visited North Korea this fall, have created a video documenting their stay. “The risk of war is greater than the public appreciates,” they write. 