We are surrounded on all sides by news of criminal investigations into politicians. Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has obtained an indictment relating to his investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government. Congressional committees are also investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 election. House Republicans have announced plans to look into the Obama administration’s handling of Hillary Clinton’s emails and its decision to give a Russian-controlled company, Uranium One, control of some American uranium reserves. Now the Justice Department is considering whether to appoint a special counsel in the uranium deal. Government corruption should be prosecuted, Congress has a role to play in overseeing the executive branch, and our intelligence agencies are right to raise concerns about foreign interference in our elections. But there is something worrisome about the current frenzy of criminal investigations. To me they point to a frightening trend that afflicts both Democrats and Republicans: the criminalization of political differences. The framers of our Constitution did not seek to make it easy to convict Americans of crimes. They bestowed upon criminal defendants a bundle of rights to provide safeguards against overzealous prosecutors or legislators, including prohibitions against compelled self-incrimination, unreasonable searches, double jeopardy and the passage of laws declaring people guilty of acts that were not criminal when committed. Our legal system also came to require proof beyond a reasonable doubt, a unanimous jury and clear statutes that differentiate between criminal and noncriminal conduct. No wonder Benjamin Franklin described our system as preferring that “a hundred guilty persons should escape than that one innocent person should suffer.” To be sure, these barriers to over-criminalization were sometimes more theoretical than practical when it came to political crimes. John Adams presided over an administration that imprisoned political opponents under the Alien and Sedition Acts. Thomas Jefferson went after his political opponents, especially Aaron Burr, with a vengeance, personally directing Burr’s unsuccessful prosecution for treason. Over time, though, the country’s judicial standards and rigorous protections for the accused made the jailing of political enemies difficult, maintaining a crucial bulwark against autocracy. But that bulwark has eroded, largely because of a new approach: the use of politically neutral but overly malleable laws on obstruction of justice, corruption and conspiracy that can be used to prosecute the ethically questionable, but not necessarily criminal, activities of political rivals. Both sides deploy this tactic. We have seen it used against Republicans, including the former representative Tom DeLay, whose conviction on corruption charges was overturned after he was forced from office, and the former senator Ted Stevens, whose conviction on failing to report gifts was later voided — after he had lost his re-election bid. The Republican National Committee waged a media war to get Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, to resign if a jury were to convict him on corruption charges so that the Republican governor of New Jersey could replace him before he leaves office early next year. (The case ended in mistrial when a jury could not reach a verdict.) I raise this alarm as a loyal liberal who has supported every Democratic candidate for president since I campaigned for Adlai Stevenson in 1952. Yet because of my strong opposition to open-ended criminal laws, some critics on the left have accused me of becoming “President Trump’s attack dog.” Nothing could be further from the truth. I worked to prevent the election of Donald Trump, and since his swearing in, I have been critical of many of his actions, including his travel ban, his rescission of protections for “Dreamers,” his telling the Russians about intelligence gathering and his failure to single out white nationalists for their provocations in Charlottesville. But elastic criminal laws should not be stretched to cover Mr. Trump’s exercise of his constitutionally authorized power. When the president asked the director of the F.B.I. to drop its investigation into Michael Flynn, the former national security adviser, or fired James Comey from the F.B.I., or provided classified information to the Russians, he was acting within his constitutional powers. Those actions may deserve opprobrium, but they should not be deemed criminal. The proper place to litigate the wisdom of such actions should be at the ballot box, not in the jury box. Even if it were to turn out that the Trump campaign collaborated, colluded or cooperated with Russian agents, that alone would not be a crime, unless the campaign asked them or helped them to commit criminal acts such as hacking. Today the target for politically tinged investigations is Donald Trump and his campaign. Last year (and again today) it was Hillary Clinton — as it was her husband before her. Next up are Bernie Sanders and his wife, who are being investigated at the behest of a Republican Party official in Vermont. An overly flexible, easily expanded criminal statute is a loaded weapon capable of being fired by zealous prosecutors at almost any target. It’s time to store the weapon until it is really needed — and not the next time someone wants to wound his political enemies.