While a House Republican proposal to tax the tuition waivers of graduate students may not be among the highest-profile Trump-era assaults on people of color, it represents a serious threat to racial equality. If included in the final tax plan, it would disproportionately harm nonwhite graduate students and be disastrous for the already dismal diversity of academia, putting an additional roadblock between people of color and the ivory tower and depriving all of us of their desperately needed intellectual contributions. If graduate students were to be taxed on free tuition valued at tens of thousands of dollars, the bulk of their small stipends would have to go to pay tuition tax, rendering doctoral education inaccessible for all but the independently wealthy. Though the Senate tax plan thankfully does not appear to include a proposal of this kind, the House plan to tax graduate students like me — not just on the modest stipends we receive in exchange for being the backbone of university teaching workforces, but also on the free tuition we receive — would be ruinous. It is obscene that Republican members of Congress are even considering shifting a tax burden off the likes of Donald Trump and his heirs and onto overworked, underpaid and sometimes even homeless graduate students. The effects of this tax would be overly felt by students of color, who already face too many barriers to entering the American academy. The result: Academia would become whiter and less inclusive than it already is. And what it already is, frankly, is shameful. “On average, 75 out of every 100 full-time faculty members at four-year colleges are white,” The Chronicle of Higher Education found last year after evaluating 400,000 professors at 1,500 colleges, adding that just “five are black, and even fewer are Hispanic.” (This disparity grows only worse when you look at tenured faculty members: 79 percent are white, and only 4 percent are black.) Such a racially monolithic faculty is woefully underprepared to teach a future student population, given that most United States newborn babies are now nonwhite, and there are already some freshman classes, such as at Harvard, that are majority nonwhite. A tuition tax would also worsen the many problems that have long kept university faculties from being diverse. It’s no surprise, given that the median wealth of white families is 12 times the wealth of black (and that the average wealth gap between white and black families appears to be growing), that white scholars have long had a significant advantage in overcoming the profoundly expensive costs of obtaining doctorates and entering academia. The effects of this racial inequality are felt generationally. The New York Times has reported that professors and lecturers have parents who are professors and lecturers at a rate of five times the rest of the population. And the chances of black candidates being offered a professorship when they “only” have the same terminal degree as white candidates are daunting. A 2014 study found that “African-American millennials have to earn two educational levels higher than their white counterparts in order to have the same employment probability.” Yet another existing barrier to diverse academia is the racial disparity of undergraduate student debt. According to a 2016 report by Brookings, from “the moment they earn their bachelor’s degrees, black college graduates owe $7,400 more on average than their white peers.” This disparity gets worse as “over the next few years, the black-white debt gap more than triples to a whopping $25,000.” By four years after graduation, according to Brookings, black graduates hold almost twice as much student loan debt as their white counterparts. One thing that has been at least somewhat helpful at redressing these enormous structural racial barriers is the way some modern Ph.D.s are funded. As the National Science Foundation noted in June in its Survey of Earned Doctorates, “a growing proportion of students over the past 10 years has relied on research assistantships and teaching assistantships for their financial support during graduate school.” While the vast majority of doctorates still go to white people, this effort seems to have contributed to an increase in racial diversity. According to the survey, there has been a 31 percent increase in black doctoral recipients over the past 10 years and a 71 percent increase in the number of Hispanic or Latino doctorate recipients. This model, which House Republicans have proposed effectively taxing into elimination, is the only way a doctoral education was possible for me. It was the funded Ph.D. — in which the stipend for a research or teaching assistantship has been taxed, but the tuition remission has not — that has diversified student bodies slightly. This is as close as we’ve come to graduate education being “the great equalizer.” Get rid of it, and the academy will again become even whiter than a Trump rally. It’s not just Ph.D. candidates who would lose out — it’s all Americans. Think about W.E.B. Du Bois’s contributions to sociology, and Zora Neale Hurston’s to anthropology. Consider the ways in which professors like bell hooks, Kimberlé Crenshaw, Roxane Gay, Maya Angelou and Michelle Alexander, have profoundly challenged dominant narratives about our society. Imagine a world that would make it even harder, if not outright impossible, for the next generation of black scholars to share their intellect. That’s the world House Republicans have attempted to create. Even if I were not a doctoral student, it’s not one I would want to inhabit.