BIRMINGHAM, Ala. — A prominent conservative law professor, Steven Calabresi, and one of his former students recently published a proposal to expand the federal judiciary by creating hundreds of new judgeships. A founder and chairman of the Federalist Society (of which I have been a member since 1984), Professor Calabresi promoted his “judgeship bill” as a way of “undoing” President Barack Obama’s judicial legacy. But there is nothing conservative — or otherwise meritorious — about this proposal. Professor Calabresi, who teaches at Northwestern University, argues that federal courts are overwhelmed by their caseloads. He complains that appellate courts hear too few oral arguments and issue too many unpublished opinions, and that district courts too rarely conduct jury trials and approve too many plea bargains in criminal cases. He also contends that the federal judicial conference, the policymaking body for the federal courts, opposes more judgeships because it fears an expansion would diminish the prestige of the judiciary. None of this is true. Professor Calabresi writes as if the judiciary should perform its work as it did when he served as a law clerk in the 1980s for two appellate judges and for Justice Antonin Scalia. But the federal docket and court processes have changed a lot since then — often because of changes championed by conservatives. Today, courts use unpublished opinions to issue quick, reasoned decisions in routine cases based on settled precedent. For example, thousands of petitions to review deportations and denials of Social Security benefits turn on discrete facts determined by administrative law judges; hearing oral arguments and issuing published opinions in most would only delay decisions that should be speedy. In criminal cases, sentencing guidelines adopted during the Reagan administration and laws establishing mandatory minimum sentences encourage defendants to waive jury trials and to accept plea bargains offered by prosecutors. Reforms passed by Congress in the 1990s made it easier for courts to curtail abusive habeas petitions challenging state convictions and to dismiss often meritless prisoner and pro se filings. And even before the 1980s, it made little sense for federal courts to publish opinions in those civil cases where they must follow state judicial precedents. Many of Professor Calabresi’s ideas lack common sense. For example, he says that my court, the 11th Circuit in Atlanta, optimally should have 56 judges, even though we expeditiously administer our current caseload with 12 judges. He contends that the Fourth Circuit in Richmond, Va., should have 57 judges, the Fifth Circuit in New Orleans, 53, and the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco, 79. No appellate court could operate on that scale; judges who must decide appeals collegially would barely know one another. Jumbo appellate courts would be unmanageable. Professor Calabresi’s proposal also fails to account for the hundreds of senior, or semiretired, judges who shoulder a large part of the judiciary’s workload. Expanding the number of judges as his plan calls for would leave scores of federal judges with little more than a part-time job. Although caseloads are larger than they were decades ago, courts have streamlined practices to resolve more cases quickly and at lower costs. Information technology allows judges to research and write opinions faster and to post them on the internet. Judges now have professional staffs of lawyers instead of having to rely on clerical support. Fewer oral arguments mean lower attorneys’ fees for litigants. The judicial conference regularly monitors caseloads and surveys courts about needs for new judgeships. If judges were overworked and cutting corners, they would undoubtedly ask Congress for more help beyond filling vacancies and the addition of a modest number of judgeships requested annually. If federal courts were suffering a caseload crisis, there would be nothing attractive about being a federal judge, and judges would be departing in droves. And they’re not. It also makes no sense to expand lower federal courts to serve a political agenda. Although presidents of different parties have appointed federal judges, circuit courts regularly decide appeals unanimously in more than 95 percent of cases and affirm a vast majority of district-court rulings. One hallmark of the federal judiciary is that it proves its devotion to the rule of law by resolving most of its cases without any political disagreement. Judicial philosophy matters in a small percentage, but the size of the judiciary has little to do with it. I have long admired Professor Calabresi. But his proposal to create hundreds of new federal judgeships should be opposed.