Susan Collins and some other senators who had hinted they might oppose the Republican tax bill giveaway to the super rich are changing their tune. Apparently, President Trump assured them over lunch that he’s going to fix the bill. Are they actually that clueless? Or do they merely think the rest of us are? One of the few certainties in these uncertain times is that no one can rely on anything Trump says. But these senators believe him now? The only other option is that they know Trump’s pledges to “fix” the tax bill are insincere and they are conning their constituents and the rest of America. Neither possibility is appetizing, but that’s where we are after Trump met with Republican senators to talk about the tax bill. Participants told reporters that Trump was paying attention and seemed to understand the details. Think about that. It’s news when this president seems to grasp an even slightly complicated idea. After the meeting, Trump announced that the bill will “have lots of adjustments before it ends, but the end result will be a very, very massive — the largest in the history of our country — tax cut.” Another false assurance. It was never going be the biggest tax cut in history, and the only “very, very massive” reductions are going to corporations and extremely wealthy individuals, like Trump. A vast majority of Americans will get absurdly small cuts that will be temporary. As The Times said in an editorial on Wednesday, middle-class Americans stand to get a cut of about $1,000, or $19 a week. (Trump’s chief economic adviser, Gary Cohn, thinks that is enough to get a new car or redo your kitchen.) The tax bill will blow a gigantic hole in the deficit, as much as $1.5 trillion, and the so-called deficit hawks, like Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, know that. But Trump apparently allayed Johnson’s concerns with a deft and powerful argument. “Come on, Ron,” he is reported to have said during a lunch on Capitol Hill on Tuesday. Johnson came out of the meeting saying that “the good news is, everybody agrees it’s a problem, it has to be fixed.” He added: “I just keep getting assurances it’s going to be fixed. I just want to see how.” So Johnson may be keeping open the possibility of opposing the bill on the Senate floor after voting for it in the Budget Committee. I doubt it, just as I doubt that the promised “fixes” will materialize. And even if they do, they may take the form of “triggers” that will roll back tax cuts if the bill doesn’t magically reduce the budget deficit. (Triggers, by the way, are strongly opposed by right-wing tax groups that dictate policy to Republicans.) “I think we’ve come to a pretty acceptable place, from my standpoint,” said Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, who had been denouncing the tax bill. That’s the same Corker who said on Oct. 24 that Trump has “great difficulty with the truth” and has “proven himself unable to rise to the occasion” of being president. What a difference a month and a lunch make. Collins is not committing herself to the bill but is more optimistic after the lunch. “I believe that a lot of my concerns, it appears, are going to be addressed and that I’m going to be getting the opportunity to offer amendments on the Senate floor,” she said. Right. Even if she miraculously gets those amendments through the Senate, the bill will then go to a conference with the House, whose tax measure is worse and is under the grip of the most right-wing Republican caucus the nation has ever endured. As for Trump’s assurances, he has not been telling the truth about the tax bill from the start. Trump also once assured us that the United States under his leadership would lead the world, but the nation’s allies are running from him, and its adversaries are delighted by how easy he is to manipulate with red carpets, fancy parties and military parades. Trump once told us not only that he had dropped his claim that President Barack Obama was not a citizen, but also that he took credit for proving that he was a citizen. Now we read in news reports that he started the whole “birther” nonsense again shortly after he was elected. During the campaign, he said the comments he made on the infamous “Access Hollywood” video about assaulting women and getting away with were just “locker room talk.” Now he’s claiming the tape was fabricated. After Trump visited the Times editorial board last year seeking our endorsement, I told my older brother, Dan, how moderate Trump had sounded. Dan said he was amazed at how gullible I was after four decades in journalism. “That’s just the Trump that he wants the Times editorial board to believe exists,” he said. I didn’t have to hear that lesson twice. Apparently some of our senators still haven’t got it.