Social media takes a lot of punches for enabling sexual harassment. But the past two months have shown that it has also provided consumers with an unprecedented power to make their market preferences heard loud and clear. And right now, the market is demanding that companies do something about sexual predators and pests in their midsts. The firing of Matt Lauer — the “Today” show star who reportedly commanded a salary of $25 million per year — by NBC News is just the latest example of a company moving swiftly to protect its brand in the face of sexual misconduct allegations. The obvious take here is that the chairman of NBC News, Andrew Lack, made a cold economic calculation: Mr. Lauer might have been a rainmaker for the network, but keeping him on was no longer worth it in the face of potential lawsuits, damage to the brand and lower ratings. Reading the just-published details of Mr. Lauer’s alleged behavior, failing to fire him seems unthinkable. He reportedly showed his penis to a colleague, bought another a sex toy with an accompanying note about how he wanted to use it on her and had a secret button under his desk to lock his office door from the inside. And that’s just the first wave of reporting. But there’s another, more positive, takeaway from Mr. Lauer’s firing, which is that corporations are susceptible to the moral suasion of the public. This might not look like what millennials imagine when they talk about “corporate social responsibility” and “ethical capitalism,” but it’s hard not to see it that way. “Everybody knew” is the stomach-churning line we have heard about so many men revealed as serial sexual offenders in the workplace. And yet they held on to their cushy jobs for years. What changed? Companies like NBC, HBO, Netflix, CBS and the Weinstein Company are more vulnerable to our outrage than ever before. At this point, the list of executives, entertainment legends and media darlings dumped by their companies includes dozens of men, including the longtime news host Charlie Rose, the comedians Andy Dick and Louis C. K., the actors Kevin Spacey and Jeremy Piven, the Amazon Studios executive Roy Price, and the journalists Mark Halperin and Leon Wieseltier. The director Bret Ratner even saw his Hillhaven Lodge whiskey line canceled by the company Diageo after sexual-harassment accusations were made against him. We’re rightfully concerned about how the internet gives corporations more opportunities to exert power over consumers, but we talk far less about the flip side: We have more power over companies now, too. For better or worse, we’ve all become remarkably effective at mobilizing it to our own causes. In contrast, look at Washington. If either Representative John Conyers Jr. or Senator Al Franken were in today’s corporate world, they’d be long gone. And just imagine if Roy Moore was a candidate for a C-suite job this month. He’d have no shot. Instead, at least so far, these politicians have been protected, and whatever happens to them, it’s clear that the political system is structured to insulate men like them from the consequences of their actions and keep their accusers quiet. The same people who often wax poetic about women’s rights, gender discrimination and consent have moved quickly to protect their own. Just check out Nancy Pelosi’s comments concerning Mr. Conyers, whom she praised as an “icon” who had “done a great deal to protect women” while flip-flopping on whether she believed those accusing him — something she has seldom had trouble making a quick judgment about when Republicans are involved. Character may no longer count in politics and public service — if it ever did — but it matters more than ever in the private sector, where consumer preferences prevail. The modern American capitalist system is far from perfect. But for all its flaws, our system — and the digital communication channels it enabled — has delivered social justice more swiftly and effectively than supposedly more enlightened public bodies tend to. As we observe and adjust to the sociosexual storm we’re all in, let’s appreciate the powers and paradigms making it possible: feminism, but also free markets.