Whenever he leaves Foggy Bottom, Rex Tillerson will be remembered as one of the most consequential secretaries of state in recent history — but for all the wrong reasons. Mr. Tillerson, who has clashed with President Trump and may be fired soon, has presided over the hollowing out of the State Department. The exodus of senior and rising Foreign Service officers will debilitate American diplomacy for a generation. It’s hard to imagine doing more damage to an institution and less good for America’s standing in the world in such a short period of time. Meanwhile, Mr. Tillerson’s sound instincts on the substance of foreign policy were routinely undermined by Mr. Trump and his incontinent Twitter feed. Mr. Tillerson’s obsession with downsizing our diplomacy has colored his time at the State Department. Instead of defending the department against the White House’s proposed 30 percent budget cut, he embraced it. Fortunately, Congress stopped — for now — the gutting of our diplomatic, democracy and development programs. Mr. Tillerson imposed a hiring freeze, canceled programs to diversify the department’s personnel, left empty dozens of the most senior positions requiring Senate confirmation and encouraged officers to leave by dangling $25,000 buyouts. Equally damaging, Mr. Tillerson’s insular management style alienated or marginalized many of the department’s most experienced hands. He and the small team around him seemed to view foreign policy professionals as the enemy — a “deep state” opposed to Mr. Trump’s agenda. In this they were profoundly wrong. Over the past 25 years, I’ve worked closely with hundreds of Foreign Service officers and civil servants through Democratic and Republican administrations. To a person, they take pride in checking their personal beliefs at the department’s door and working for the success of whatever administration they serve. I could not tell you the political affiliation of any of the officers with whom I served. But instead of looping them in, Mr. Tillerson’s seventh floor locked them out of policy deliberations. The result was to deny Mr. Tillerson the intellectual capital he needed to succeed when policy was debated around the White House Situation Room table. And the department found itself grievously short-handed of the assistant secretaries and ambassadors who actually implement policy around the world. It’s hard to overstate the lasting harm Mr. Tillerson’s tenure will do to America’s diplomacy. Last month, Barbara Stephenson, the head of the American Foreign Service Association, reported that “our leadership ranks are being depleted at a dizzying speed.” Since January, the department has lost 60 percent of its career ambassadors — the equivalent of four-star generals — more than 40 percent of its three-star-equivalent career ministers and about 14 percent of its two-star-equivalent minister counselors. “Were the U.S. military to face such a decapitation of its leadership ranks,” Ms. Stephenson noted in a message to her members, “I would expect a public outcry.” And the number of people applying to take the Foreign Service entrance exam has dropped by more than 50 percent. The world does not organize itself. In the absence of an engaged, diplomatically energized America, others will set the agenda, shape the rules and dominate international institutions — and probably not in ways that advance our interests or values. America’s ability to mobilize others in the pursuit of common objectives will atrophy. And a whole host of challenges that require coordinated, collective responses — epidemics that defy frontiers, hackers who breach firewalls, terrorists who form global networks, aggressors who ignore borders, rogue actors who amass intercontinental arsenals, and an ocean that rises and a planet that warms — will go unmet. The paradox of Mr. Tillerson’s time at the State Department is that he has exercised good judgment on the most critical issues. According to press accounts, he counseled Mr. Trump to stick with the Paris climate accord, support the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement, stand by the Iran nuclear deal, tone down the loose rhetoric on North Korea, hold firm against Russian aggression in Ukraine and defuse the spat between Qatar and Saudi Arabia that Mr. Trump himself helped instigate. Mr. Trump repeatedly rejected his secretary of state’s advice, embarrassed him with public contradictions and gutted his credibility with foreign governments. If, as reported, Mr. Tillerson intentionally kept a low public profile to spend time with the boss and went along with the State Department’s deconstruction to curry his favor, that strategy backfired miserably. In the end, it is because they are so out of sync on substance that Mr. Trump has apparently decided on Rexit. Mr. Trump is entitled to senior advisers who reflect his views. He is now likely to get it if, as reported, Mike Pompeo, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, moves over to the State Department and Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, succeeds him at the C.I.A. Both are whip smart, ideological — and deeply partisan. Both encourage, and flatter, Mr. Trump’s instincts. Mr. Pompeo lacks foreign policy experience, and Mr. Cotton has no deep ties to the intelligence community. But both are perceived as being close to Mr. Trump, so they will at least be taken seriously by their bureaucracies and their foreign counterparts. We can expect a focus on hard-power solutions to every problem, a fixation on confronting Iran and an even more aggressive pursuit of “America First.” At least Mr. Tillerson tried to check Mr. Trump’s worst excesses. Now we may see them fully unleashed.