I’d venture a bet that no American hates “Prairie Home Companion” more than I do. Having loved people who have loved the show, I have tried desperately to understand its appeal. I have failed. Those relationships, perhaps not coincidentally, have failed, too. So when I say it’s dead wrong that Minnesota Public Radio is going to stop rebroadcasting past episodes of the radio program, I don’t make the argument out of any devotion to it or Garrison Keillor. It’s also not because the allegation that got Mr. Keillor fired yesterday after more than 40 years of running the show he founded seems minor according to the very limited information we have so far. MPR said Mr. Keillor was ousted over “inappropriate behavior.” The radio host wrote a baffling statement to The Star Tribune saying that the behavior amounted to one instance in which he put his hand on a woman’s bare back. Let’s wait to see if more troubling details come to light. It’s because scrubbing the culture of work produced by the complicated or compromised or conniving or criminal or contemptible is a practice with a chilling legacy. It is a policy that is typically carried out by those who lack all faith in people to make up their own minds. One of the great many things the past two months has proved is that Americans, especially American women, are more than capable of rendering their own judgments. And yet various companies apparently think they should make our choices for us. Harvey Weinstein’s executive producer credit is being removed by the Weinstein Company from all of the TV series he’s worked on. After Louis C. K. was accused by five women earlier this month of sexual misconduct, HBO quickly removed his stand-up specials and his show, “Lucky Louie,” from its On Demand service. I didn’t complain: I’m a cord-cutter with a borrowed HBO Go password. Surely HBO wanted to get out in front of a Twitter blowup or an outrage-fueled boycott. From a financial perspective, I get the defensive move. But am I the only person who has been more curious to watch Louis C. K. bits than ever before? I can’t count the number of YouTube clips I’ve revisited in the past few weeks. I went and rewatched a 2011 “Louie” episode in which the comedian debates a representative from “Christians Against Masturbation” on Fox News. When I watched that episode years ago I was hysterical. Now, knowing that he forced women to watch him masturbate in real life, my reaction was something else entirely. It’s not only that we — the people that made these artists and creators famous and wealthy — ought to have the opportunity to come to new conclusions about TV and movies and art in light of more information about the personal lives of their creators. It’s also the virtue of the art in and of itself. “Annie Hall” and “The Graduate” are incredible films. Why should we be deprived of watching them because some of the men that made them are bad? I think “Les Demoiselles D’Avignon” is one of the most transfixing paintings of all time. And it was made by a monster of a man. Pablo Picasso beat one of his mistresses until she was unconscious. He ground a lit cigarette into the cheek of another. He relished what we’d now call a cage match between a wife and a lover. “For me there are only two kinds of women, goddesses and doormats,” he told Françoise Gilot, a 21-year-old lover when he was 61 years old. His granddaughter, Marina Picasso, wrote about his treatment of women in her 2001 book: “He submitted them to his animal sexuality, tamed them, bewitched them, ingested them and crushed them onto his canvas.” Are you surprised to hear that Picasso wasn’t particularly kind to his children or grandchildren either? His paintings weren’t his only legacy. After his death in 1973, his second wife, a mistress and a grandson all committed suicide. Given this sordid history, should MoMA not display this painting? If the standard for art is the decency of its creators, we’re going to have a lot of empty museums. It’s the viewers’ prerogative to look — or to look away — just as it is ours to watch or not watch “House of Cards” or “Rosemary’s Baby” or “Transparent” or, yes, to listen to old episodes of a very boring radio show.