This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. This is madness. Senate leaders are now hastily trying to rewrite a sprawling tax bill — one that touches almost every part of the economy — and then pass it mere hours later. They need to do so because an independent Senate analysis late yesterday made clear what everyone already knew: The bill would add to the deficit enormously. In a normal legislative process, the Senate would have received that analysis long before taking any vote. Now senators are searching for changes to make the bill more politically palatable. But the notion of making those changes today and then speeding immediately to a vote is madness. There would be no time for experts to consider the consequences — to discover the sort of problems and unintended effects that last-minute changes are bound to create. By the time they did, the Senate would have passed it. Already, the tax bill has been pushed ahead in an unprecedented fashion. Obamacare had months of hearings and debates. So did the tax cuts signed by George W. Bush and Ronald Reagan and the deficit-reduction packages signed by Bill Clinton and George H.W. Bush. Only three Republican senators are needed to stop this. It can be any combination of senators who care about the dignity of the institution, the deficit and the middle class. I hope that there are at least three such senators, who woke up this morning and realized the madness of passing major tax legislation in extreme haste. Elsewhere. The Atlantic’s Ronald Brownstein notes that the House and Senate tax bills mostly benefit older, whiter Americans — and push their negative effects onto younger, more racially diverse generations. “The irony is that older, white America needs more of younger, diverse America to ascend into the middle class so it can generate the tax revenue to support the baby boom’s retirement. Yet with these tax bills, the old are strapping a boulder onto the backs of the young as they attempt that climb,” he writes. In The Times. “President Trump has single-handedly done more to undermine the basic tenets of American democracy than any foreign agent or foreign propaganda campaign could,” Thomas Edsall wrote yesterday. Today, Sarah Leah Whitson writes about Saudi elites who have now had their own tools of oppression turned against them.