Smoke is the smell of famine. Crossing from Uganda’s banana belt into southern Sudan in the 1990s, I would soon see boys igniting the brush to roast any grasshoppers they hadn’t caught, club the last rodents fleeing from their burrows and slingshot ground-nesting birds. They might also boil leaves in a tin can over a twig fire for some nutrition, or climb a tree to eat the buds at the top. Confused and distracted, they sieved every stream with their fingers for minnows or frogs. They were skinny from head to foot, just the basic skin and bones. Hunger can feel like a stick that has been swallowed, lodged in the stomach as you retch, or a migraine’s pain there. I’ve seen a boy run to his mother with a single kernel of corn, picked off the road, in the palm of his hand. But you couldn’t outrun the hunger, and more than 20 years after my visit, memories of the suffering I saw still weigh me down, especially because hunger yet again hangs over South Sudan and Somalia, Yemen and northeast Nigeria, threatening, by the United Nations’ estimate, 20 million people. I had gone to East Africa to write about the famine and remember being told of four or five Acholi women in what is now South Sudan who had been seized by crocodiles in the Nile when they checked their fish traps or waded after lily roots and other edibles. A Nile perch on a trotline could weigh 100 pounds or more, a feast for their family and worth the risk. It’s not that the Acholi hadn’t planted their ancestral lands, but they’d been driven off before the harvest, caught in the war between the Sudanese government and the Sudan People’s Liberation Army. Now in hostile territory, they were focused on not being attacked. At an aid group’s encampment, I watched two expatriates chalk checkerboard squares in the dirt, where the starving youngsters would sit while those aid workers cooked a sack of cornmeal in a 55-gallon drum. One cup apiece that day, yet there was no stampede to be fed. Along the one road that passed by, the refugees roamed listlessly saving what energy they had, but when food was at hand, discipline had to be maintained. The poignancy of that checkerboard was overwhelming. It took a while to feed the assembled people. Some biscuits were passed out, but far too few. (The aid workers and I ate hastily, secretly, powdered eggs twice a day.) That 55-gallon barrel didn’t seem big anymore, and would be emptied. Famine is starvation metastasizing. Like a cloud shadow it spreads unpredictably, then grips. Child-size graves were mounded alongside every forest path I walked, with a scrap of cloth or broken toy on top of each. In Nairobi there was hunger too. No sandwich crust or orange rind went unclaimed from the gutter, and banana peels were chewed. But there was a church with a food pantry, and tourists to beg from. I might share a beer at the New Stanley Hotel with some Oxfam volunteers, jolly on a weekend break, who’d tack notes for their friends on the bark of a giant thorn tree in the courtyard. I wanted to write about Somalia, where children were also dying in droves, but the relief group’s administrator was reluctant to fly me in because that would sacrifice 200 pounds of food in the belly of the Cessna. Thus more children would die. But there was famine in Sudan as well, he pointed out, to which he was sending 58 truckloads of corn the next day. A hundred thousand civilians had received no shipments for three months. “Be in front of your hotel at eight tomorrow morning, and we’ll get you there,” he said. From Nairobi to Kampala, tortoises crossed the road and hyenas prowled near the boys herding wide-horned cattle that they bled, as well as milked, for lunch. We were convoying corn that had been shipped from Iowa by a Catholic charity. “Are you a missionary?” the guard had asked at the Sudan border, with an ironic tone, meaning that if I were, he would let me pass, though only a missionary might want to. Soliciting me for a minor bribe, he also allowed his nephews to beg handouts from our drivers. Appalled by and centered on the famine, I happened to be accompanied by another observer, who seemed completely indifferent to the hunger, just focused on and questioning soldiers about their armament. When we bunked together, I was amused to see an assortment of passports spilling out of his backpack — Dutch, French, Swiss, Belgian. I even asked him jokingly whether he was an Israeli or American agent. Maybe C.I.A.? Because I had heard that Americans, too, were arming these rebels. You see people dying and yet you’re not. In fact, a plane might zip in and fetch you. You have magic slippers. Our aid groups were feeding both sides in this civil war. The Lutherans flew food in to supply the government troops besieged inside Juba, and the Catholics were provisioning the rebels who had surrounded them. At the New Stanley Hotel, a Catholic and a Lutheran might kick back over kebabs and ruefully joke about enabling this sad conflict. Yet people were going to starve if they stopped. You could refuse to feed the fighting forces, but by nightfall they would seize whatever you’d given the civilians. Food fed the war. From Jinja in Uganda to Omdurman in Sudan, where the White Nile joins the Blue, I’d begun to feel that this magic river, exalting and yet tragic, was partly mine. I couldn’t shake it when I went home. Hunger is so drastic, claustrophobic. You can’t eat the beauty of the mountains and countryside. If there is nothing to eat, there is nothing to eat. People dig for a root, and don’t give up until everything is burned.