How does an opinion writer keep up in the Age of Trump? Since it’s a question I often get, I thought I’d share four days’ worth of my false starts and might-have-been ledes. On Tuesday’s news that North Korea had test-fired a ballistic missile that could hit Washington, D.C., I started drafting a piece that opened as follows: “Jim Mattis is familiar with Napoleon’s famous orders to one of his field marshals, ‘If you start to take Vienna — take Vienna.’ As a commander in Iraq in 2004, Mattis used an F-bombed version of the line to rage against the Bush administration’s abrupt decision to pull back from a planned assault on the city of Falluja. Tough talk married to visible hesitation is the worst approach possible toward an enemy. “But that’s also a good description of the Trump administration’s policy toward Pyongyang today. …” Then came Wednesday morning, and Donald Trump was in another Twitter fever. Were we reliving the Madness of King George for the nuclear age? Or was something more sinister at work? A different column was in order: “If you want to understand the ways in which Donald Trump’s presidency is systematically corrupting the American mind, I have a book recommendation for you. It’s about Vladimir Putin’s Russia. …” Within an hour of filing the piece, which appeared Thursday, I was reproaching myself for not mentioning Trump’s vile retweets of a British far-right extremist. So I scribbled the following lede for this column: “Donald Trump’s apologists have a simple way of dealing with the president’s unhinged Twitter stream: They ignore it. ‘Watch what he does, not what he says,’ is the tantric mantra of the hear-no-evil right. “That’s a line that will be harder to defend now that the president’s retweets of a British bigot have precipitated a gratuitous and self-inflicted crisis in relations with our closest ally. …” Then the news about Rex Tillerson’s slow-motion political execution hit. Start again: “In October, CNN’s Jake Tapper asked Rex Tillerson whether he felt castrated by Donald Trump. ‘I checked; I’m fully intact,’ the secretary of state cracked. He might want to check again. “The senior member of the cabinet is being subjected to the kind of humiliation he has spent the past 10 months inflicting on his own department. There’s a kind of animal-kingdom justice in this, like in one of those YouTube videos in which a tiger shark eats a hammerhead. …” Next thing I know, the Michael Flynn story erupts. “Here’s my suggestion to any burger-joint franchise looking to expand in a blue state: Create a new sandwich consisting of two mammoth meat patties separated by a fried egg, slathered in barbecue sauce and served with fried onions, bacon, guacamole, two tomato slices and a dash of habanero sauce, on a buttered sesame seed bun. “Call it the Nothingburger. You can eat all 1,900 calories of it and still pretend you’re on a diet. “That’s the dish that Robert Mueller just served with the guilty plea of the disgraced National Security Adviser Michael Flynn. For months, the Nothingburger right has tried to claim that the special counsel was another Captain Ahab and collusion his white whale, that Paul Manafort was being brought up on charges that had nothing to do with his work for Trump, that the foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos was a nonentity in the campaign, and that evidence of collusion between the president and the Kremlin was thinner than Soviet toilet paper. “That version of events is impossible to sustain. A ‘very senior member’ of the presidential transition team directed Flynn while he was in contact with the Russian Embassy, undermining the Obama administration’s foreign policy in its final days — at a minimum, a violation of the old Logan Act. Was it Jared Kushner who directed these contacts? And did Trump direct Kushner? “We already knew that Flynn lied about his contacts with the embassy. Now it seems that the Trump team misled when it said it didn’t really know what Flynn was up to. And we have a clearer idea of why the president was desperate to get then-F.B.I. Director James Comey to go easy on Flynn. “Administration fluffers such as Sean Hannity and Mark Levin will say that none of this implicates the president. Neither did a certain burglary in 1972. It’s the cover-up that’s usually the crime. They will also say the outreach to Russia was for a good purpose, to save Israel from a harmful U.N. resolution. But it was also about easing pressure on Russia, Iran’s preferred arms supplier. “In the meantime, Flynn will continue to be a cooperative witness. More shoes will drop. And the odds that Trump won’t serve out his term grow greater.” Or something like that. One of these days I’ll get around to writing about smaller stories. Like, you know, the tax bill.