At my middle brother’s wedding, the cake was so good I ate three slices. That was six years ago. Recently, on their anniversary, I texted my brother and his wife a picture of the slices of cake I ate with the message “This was delicious. Thank you!” My brother responded, “Why do you still have this?” As if there were other things to store on my phone besides thousands of pictures of things I’ve eaten. My youngest brother had a Baltimore-themed reception; the cake was a giant Berger Cookie, a specialty of the city. Years later, I was reminiscing with my mother and lamented not taking some cake home with me. “Why do you remember this?” she asked. I replied, “It seemed important.” If you have good cake at your wedding, I will send you a handwritten thank-you note every year. If you have bad wedding cake, I will complain about you with my dying breath. And God help the baker who comes between me and my cake. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court will hear oral arguments in Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission. Masterpiece Cakeshop sounds to me like the name of a lavish PBS dramatization of “The Great British Bake Off” in period costume. It’s not, unfortunately. In 2012, Charlie Craig and David Mullins, a same-sex couple, visited a Colorado bakery to order a wedding cake. The men were set to marry in Massachusetts, as it wasn’t yet legal for them to do so in Colorado. However, their desire to share their union with their community prompted them to hold a reception in Denver. Enter cake. The bakery owner, Jack Phillips, turned them down, citing a religious objection. The couple sued, claiming the bakery violated Colorado’s anti-discrimination law. Ostensibly, this is a free-speech case. The baker has a right, as an individual, to express his disapproval of the choice of two men to make a life together. Does he have the right to convert that disapproval into refusing service? When granted the right to marry, are we also granted the right to a wedding and a host of other cultural expressions? The baker’s opinion about marriage isn’t one that a majority of Americans hold. A 2017 Pew Research Center survey found that Americans support same-sex marriage by a margin of nearly two-to-one. Forty-seven percent of Republicans and 74 percent of Democrats voiced support of same-sex marriage in a 2017 Gallup poll. But what these numbers don’t reflect is how these views manifest themselves in daily life for L.G.B.T. Americans. This case is a public reminder that, though the law may guarantee a right, an individual’s actions can affect the way a group experiences its freedom. I started planning my wedding in 2015, before I was engaged and before the Supreme Court’s decision in Obergefell v. Hodges made marriage equality the law of the land. I had a Google Doc full of pictures of obsidian tulips and interracial cake toppers, waiting on the world to change. My now-husband didn’t know what I was up to. But that didn’t matter. I was setting intentions for everything from my destiny to my cake flavors, irrespective of what the law would allow. However, once I started planning in earnest, I realized that actually executing a wedding is miserable and all I wanted was to begin my life with my husband as soon as possible. Nothing has surprised me more than finding out I abhorred wedding planning. I consider myself a mix of Auntie Mame and the guy who is always dropping by Ina Garten’s house just in time for crudités and gossip. Putting on a huge to-do is what I was born for. I see it as part of a queer cultural inheritance: a resilient determination to celebrate, despite oppressive social policies. It felt like the dream of my ancestors that I would be able to register for expensive gravy boats and sign a document held in City Hall. It also felt like a chore. The saving grace of the monthslong gantlet was the promise of wedding expos. Americans spent an average of $35,329 on their weddings in 2016, according to a survey by the wedding site TheKnot.com. As in any other lucrative industry, there are thousands of vendors — caterers, florists, lighting designers — who would love nothing more than to help couples create their special day, for a price. Those vendors come together under one roof to lobby for business at wedding expos, which are like an office supply fair crossed with the Golden Globes. My dream. “I have been waiting for this moment my entire life,” I told my husband-to-be, David, clutching my first expo registration like a golden ticket. “There will be so much free cake! There will be brochures! About napkins!” I waxed rhapsodic about signing onto the mailing lists of various D.J.’s; he nodded. He expressed regrets he couldn’t join. He’s a pastor and the expo was on a Sunday, a work day. I wasn’t about to let religious expression get in the way of my pursuit of cake samples, so I went alone. “Where’s the bride-to-be?” a vendor asked as I stared at his tower of orchids. I replied, “Well, there isn’t one.” A lighting designer asked, “Are you making decisions for the lucky lady?” I cocked my head. “I am the lucky lady,” I said. I had expected to be showered with attention and, more important, complimentary carbohydrates. Despite my “I’m getting married!” sticker, I found myself ignored. I ventured up to the third floor and found a table with a surfeit of cake options, but no labels. “Do you think one of these is lemon?” a woman next to me asked. I turned to her: “There’s only one way to find out.” She replied, “Eat them all?” My soul mate. She asked me if I was enjoying myself. I shrugged. “Apparently, you’re invisible without a bride,” I said. She told me she understood. She wore scrubs, with her hair tied back, a marked difference from the party-casual dress of many other attendees. She explained that she was a vet and had accidentally left her engagement ring at work. Grabbing two more slices of cake, we wandered away from the table. We were interrupted by a voice: “Hello, young lovers!” We found ourselves in front of a centerpiece vendor who hadn’t had time for me earlier. A woman behind the table waved at us. “So, when’s the big day?” I looked at the vet. The vet replied, “August.” “How big?” the vendor asked. “150 people?” I said. “So exciting,” the vendor said, as she cracked open a huge binder. As we excused ourselves, she grabbed my arm. “There’s Champagne downstairs,” she said, conspiratorially. “Make sure you all get some!” Separately, the vet and I were two lonely, barely visible people with icing on our fingers. Together, we became a charming young black couple with a summer wedding and a deep interest in as many bite-size shortcakes as we could find. We looked the way people expected young and cake-worthy couples to look. We agreed to take this expo for everything it had to offer. It turns out heteronormativity is a very effective con. We bounced from table to table, collecting samples and spinning a tale of our joint bliss. At one point, taking a break from fish tacos and parfait trays, we leaned over a balcony and confessed that the process was harder than we’d thought it was going to be. Money was shorter; time was fleeting; nothing felt magical. It was easy to feel you were doing it all wrong. “Thank you for being here,” I said. She and I may not have aligned with vendors’ ideas of who they were supposed to serve, but we both belonged. Ignoring a person, a union or an expression of love will not make it go away. We all have the right to free samples, to be seen and to be overwhelmed by the reality of our love. As the vet and I made moves to part ways, we realized we didn’t know each other’s names. “I’m Eric,” I said. “I’m Jessica,” she replied. “Congratulations,” we said at the same time.