BLOOMINGTON, Ind. — The Supreme Court is to hear arguments Tuesday in the case of a Colorado baker, Jack Phillips, who refused to make a wedding cake for two gay men, Charlie Craig and David Mullins. The legal issues in this case are potentially vexing and complicated, but there is a simple way the court could avoid most of them and resolve this case through the application of well-established law. The lawyers for Mr. Phillips — who is supported by the Trump administration — build their argument around the fantastical idea that he should be exempt from Colorado’s anti-discrimination law because, through his creations of flour and fondant, he is not only honoring God, he is somehow voicing his views about, and actively participating in, every wedding he caters. Thus, they argue, his First Amendment speech and religion rights take precedence over Mr. Craig and Mr. Mullins’s right to be treated with dignity in the marketplace. Colorado, they say, cannot compel Mr. Phillips to support something he regards as sinful. This argument is an appeal more to emotion and sentimentality than to legal reasoning. His supporters portray Mr. Phillips as a humble Christian shopkeeper and the Bernini of buttercream who is not only expressing his love through every cake, but invisibly looking on with approval as the newlyweds cut the first piece. Mr. Phillips believes he is an arbiter of which marriages are “sacred” and “legitimate.” This is all an absurd conceit that should be rejected. Mr. Phillips is a businessman selling a commercial product, and the law must treat him as such. As the constitutional law professors Eugene Volokh and Dale Carpenter write in their friend-of-the-court brief in support of the couple, “No one looks at a wedding cake and reflects, ‘The baker has blessed this union.’ ” Grappling with Mr. Phillips’s speech and religion arguments would drag the court into esoteric questions about what other common business activities should count as First Amendment-protected expression (how about engraving the rings, or driving the limo?), or whether piping whipped cream into rosettes should qualify as an “exercise of religion.” Even if we assume Mr. Phillips is sincere about the grandiose role he imagines for himself in every customer’s wedding, similar claims could be easily invented by other business owners seeking a respectable-sounding pretext to discriminate. The lawyers and activists supporting Mr. Phillips have repeatedly pressed similar speech and religion arguments, with no success in the lower courts, to advance a larger goal: creating a right of business owners to refuse service to gays and lesbians as a form of resistance to marriage equality. But this is more of a political project than a question of law, and the court should reject the invitation to create safe spaces for anti-gay discrimination. Does it matter that Mr. Phillips’s wedding cakes are individually created and may even, in some sense, be “art”? No. Many goods and services, from bespoke suits to bathroom tiling, involve professional and even artistic judgment by the people we hire to execute them. But just because something is aesthetically pleasing or involves creativity and even passion does not mean the activity of creating that object can be insulated from ordinary laws governing business practices. First Amendment law is abundant on this point. If Mr. Phillips decided that he could not be true to his muse without the use of banned coloring agents, would the food safety laws have to yield? Of course not. And so the simplest and best way out of this case would be for the Supreme Court to avoid the messy question of whether bakery products are constitutionally protected expression. Colorado is not seeking to impose its aesthetic, political or religious judgment on Mr. Phillips’s art. It is just saying that he can’t discriminate among the people who seek to buy his art. An anti-discrimination law is a regulation not of expression, but of conduct. Like many other states, Colorado prohibits Mr. Phillips, as the owner of a business open to the public, from refusing to sell certain products to certain customers based on their race, religion, sexual orientation or other protected characteristics. It is well settled that such laws are constitutional. If Picasso opened a shop in Colorado to sell his paintings, the same rules would apply to him. Even if we were to grant that Mr. Phillips is engaged in some form of self-expression, the Supreme Court has explained many times that the First Amendment does not prevent generally applicable social and business regulations from imposing incidental burdens on speech. For example, newspapers may not be censored, but their owners may be required, like all other businesses, to pay taxes, even if they would rather use the money to do more investigative reporting. Mr. Phillips might have a legitimate right to refuse to make a cake carrying certain words or images he finds offensive, just as an African-American baker could refuse to decorate something with a white-power symbol. But that is not this case. He refused service to the gay couple before they even talked about any design. Mr. Phillips has become an icon for evangelicals who imagine themselves as a beleaguered minority battling the social and legal consensus in favor of L.G.B.T. equality. A brief by a group of conservative academics compares him to the Jehovah’s Witnesses children in a landmark 1943 Supreme Court decision who fought for the right to refuse to salute the flag. But the two situations are so factually and legally remote that the analogy cannot be taken seriously. No one has required Mr. Phillips to pledge allegiance to gay marriage. Nor has anyone denied him the freedom to speak, write or pray against it. Mr. Phillips is not a church, a political pamphleteer or a schoolchild being forced to honor a graven image. He is a small-business owner who makes and sells pretty things to eat. That is honest and important work, but the First Amendment does not give merchants like him the right to refuse to comply with anti-discrimination statutes just because they think their personal beliefs are more important. Beliefs may not be regulated by the government, but business practices can be. This principle is well settled, and applying it to Mr. Phillips would make this a much easier case.