It has been a busy presidency for Donald Trump, who, between absorbing huge doses of Fox News directly into his veins and taking numerous trips to his golf courses, somehow finds time to promote a tax bill that would disembowel the middle class and to attack prominent black people via tweets. None of this makes me feel good. But there’s one upside to his insistence on attacking outspoken black people: It has made me, as a black woman, feel more patriotic. It’s not that I welcome his racist vitriol. But now, more than ever, we get a chance to articulate exactly what we stand for as citizens and the values that define our country. Let’s recap. President Trump recently attacked the running back Marshawn Lynch for standing for Mexico’s national anthem but sitting for “The Star- Spangled Banner” before an N.F.L. game, to protest police brutality. The president attacked Representative Frederica Wilson of Florida after she accused him of insensitivity toward the widow of Sgt. La David Johnson, who was killed in Niger. He slammed the basketball player Steph Curry for refusing to visit the White House; called Representative John Lewis of Georgia “all talk” and “no action” (although Mr. Lewis is known for, in part, suffering a skull fracture at the hands of Alabama state troopers); and, during a September rally in Huntsville, Ala., ranted about football players’ decision to kneel during the national anthem. The president’s tweets and speeches make it clear what he thinks about black Americans: Our role is to sit down and shut up, to remain deferential and grateful to him — about what I’m not entirely sure, since his policies attack our rights, livelihoods and physical safety. But these days, after I move through a mixture of grief, fear and disgust, which I always feel after reading his racist tweets, I feel defiant. When I see football players kneeling during the national anthem, I’m thrilled. Their protests convey strength and grace, and remind me that there is a more equal, more multicultural future worth fighting for, one that people are indeed fighting for and that I can too. This seems like an odd time to feel such pride, and this belief, on my part, comes with significant reservations. But high-profile acts of protest, as well as smaller things like seeing my friends more excited to vote, have gradually pushed me to believe that this era has become one of clear choices, full of opportunities to reject a white supremacist president and all that he stands for, and to try to remake the country in a more just and fair image. I have always been a dedicated voter, but this year I took a special pride in sitting down with my family before the elections and going over dozens of pages of New York City voter guides that came in the mail. I was helping to pick our mayor and local officials: our comptroller, who manages the city’s money; our public advocate, who argues on residents’ behalf; and our City Council member, who helps make laws. I selected among candidates who said they want to protect people from gun and domestic violence, from predatory landlords and developers, and from police brutality. It was also the chance to do something I don’t think we talk about enough in the Trump era: to fully define where we stand on such issues, instead of merely what we stand against, and to acknowledge that local fights are just as important as national ones. To be sure, we have to call out a president who is busy dismantling the State Department and starting a culture war against racial, ethnic and religious minorities. But it’s just as important to decide what we’d like in his place. Watching the New Jersey and Virginia election results last month, when we elected candidates from a broad variety of racial and cultural backgrounds, leaders who want to make government a positive force in American life instead of using it to take away citizens’ rights and income, was an empowering moment. It felt a lot like patriotism, in part because it seemed as if we were taking steps toward a country that doesn’t have to be ham-handedly controlled by a white supremacist who can’t stand many of his fellow citizens. For so long, the discussion about patriotism has been about respecting the national anthem and the flag — a backward focus on what Americans accomplished in the past. But now, true patriotism is a forward-looking, uniting force, built on a belief that all our citizens deserve civil rights, due process and the representation of our diverse groups in governance. It is an insistence on believing in the worth and contributions of all our citizens, not just one slice of them. Trump’s attacks on black people are awful — but they are also, when paired with his growing unpopularity, reminders that he doesn’t represent all of America. Thanks to outspoken black people, and protests, and liberal activism, and the recent elections in Virginia and New Jersey, I believe in my country and its ability to keep fighting.