This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.. First, if you’re curious about that map above, you can learn more in my column this morning about “lost Einsteins.” He alone. You recognize the president’s pattern by now, don’t you? This weekend, President Trump blasted the F.B.I. on Twitter as a biased institution whose “reputation is in Tatters - worst in History!” (The capitalization choices are his.) He is casting the men and women of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as unreliable, if not worse, just as he has previously done with C.I.A. agents, federal judges, scientists, Congressional Budget Office analysts and journalists, among others. The president wants to undercut just about anybody who is an independent source of information. It’s a classic tactic of autocrats, as people who have spent time in modern Russia, China or Venezuela can tell you. “The attacks on institutions that check his power continue,” the political scientist Brendan Nyhan wrote this weekend. “What would you say if you saw it in another country?” Fortunately, we live in a democracy with institutions — including the F.B.I. — that have the ability to push back against his attempts to monopolize information. But Trump’s tactics should alarm everyone. Our democratic institutions won’t remain strong unless the country fights for them. They are under attack in a way they have never been before in our lifetimes. Related: Billy Bush has an op-ed in today’s Times about the “Access Hollywood” tape, on which Trump bragged to Bush about molesting women.  Tax cuts, Medicare cuts. Just before 2 A.M. Saturday, the Senate passed a tax bill without giving many members time to read the bill and without holding hearings on the bill’s major provisions. “I’m trying to think of a historical precedent for this, but I’m coming up completely blank,” the historian Kevin M. Kruse tweeted. When some people responded by asking about Obamacare, Kruse calmly enumerated the months of debate and hearings over it — all of which are in stark contrast to what just happened. Now that the tax cut is headed toward becoming law, the focus of Congress is turning to spending cuts, including to Medicare. I’m quite curious whether Senator Susan Collins, the Maine Republican who says she opposes such cuts, will really be willing to vote for the final bill.  Lost Einsteins. The map at the top of this newsletter comes from a big new academic study that offers the clearest picture yet of where American inventors come from. And it’s a worrisome picture. Even when low- and middle-income children excel in school, they’re very unlikely to grow up and become patent holders — much less likely than affluent children. Women are also much less likely to become patent holders, as are African-Americans, Latinos and people who grew up in the Southeast. That’s why the headline on my column uses the phrase “Lost Einsteins.” This isn’t just a matter of fairness. It’s also about the societal cost of the innovations we’re losing. The Congressional tax plan, by the way, will aggravate the problem. The Flynn plea. The most consequential charges against Michael Flynn were the ones Robert Mueller didn’t levy against Flynn, writes former F.B.I. agent Asha Rangappa in The Washington Post. Mueller “would offer this kind of a deal” — potentially letting off Flynn easy — “only if he could get testimony that helps his case” against the most senior campaign officials. In The Times, the editorial board along with Richard Painter and Norman Eisen offer their takes on Flynn’s guilty plea.  How Trump-friendly media reacted. Breitbart’s Joel Pollak defended Trump, denouncing Mueller’s probe as “the swamp’s political revenge” and arguing that Flynn’s Russian back-channel “is not illegal, and may even have been a good idea.” But — in a move Trump-friendly media has used to shield the president from blame on other issues — Pollak did fault members of the administration. He mocked Ty Cobb, a White House lawyer, as a “Beltway lawyer,” calling Cobb’s prediction that the Mueller inquiry is nearing its end “borderline delusion.” Despite “no evidence of collusion,” as Pollak claimed on MSNBC, “Trump might want to sue his lawyer … for malpractice.” The president’s defenders also seized on a Times report that Mueller had dismissed a possibly anti-Trump F.B.I. official from his team as proof of bias. “You get a picture that this investigation is out to get the president,” said Newsmax’s Chris Ruddy, a Trump confidante, on ABC yesterday. Still, he acknowledged that Flynn’s plea deal “poses an existential threat to the Trump presidency.” The full Opinion report from The Times follows.