Meet Helen, a middle-aged woman newly devoted to Tibetan Buddhism, living in the American Midwest. She has recently taken a vow to limit and alleviate suffering in the world. She thinks one way to do this is to make a pilgrimage to Taktsang Monastery, or the Tiger Nest, in the mountains of Bhutan, to receive rare and precious teachings that will spiritually prepare her for her life of compassionate action. According to legend, the eighth-century Buddhist master Guru Rinpoche flew to this location from Tibet on the back of a tigress, but Helen takes a 737 from Kansas City, Mo. The fossil fuels burned on this trip damage the natural environment; the food that Helen eats on the plane is prepared by underpaid workers and supports industrial agriculture; the clothes she wears and the seats she sits on were made in sweatshops; the airline itself is part of an enormous multinational conglomerate. You get the point: Even what we see as our most high-minded and noble journeys can perpetuate the destructive forces that we hope to escape. In the words of the American Transcendentalist, Ralph Waldo Emerson, “My giant goes with me wherever I go.” Helen’s actions, though well-intentioned, hover between hypocrisy and self-defeat. But perhaps we shouldn’t be so quick to judge Helen. We live in an age of deep complicity — and not just the political sort. The world’s most pressing problems are global — poverty, hunger, environmental decimation and warming — and implicate us all. To a greater or lesser extent, and often with the best intentions, we have done our part in contributing to the mess. Seen this way, then, Helen’s complicity is not necessarily her fault. Helen did not create the circumstances in which she finds herself: it is impractical, next to impossible and probably undesirable, for Helen to find another way to Bhutan and her Buddhist goals. If she is to be a Buddhist in any sense, however, she must find a way to work through the complicity that remains the fact of the matter. This is not unlike what Western ethicists call the “problem of dirty hands”: the difficulty of tidying up the world’s atrocities with hands that can never be washed clean, and may get dirtier in the process. “You can’t fix the system from the outside …” is how this kind of complicity is normally sold to someone who is being drawn into what C. S. Lewis derided as “The Inner Ring,” the place of morally inappropriate compromise. What should we make, then, of this situation that many of us find ourselves in today, perhaps especially we Americans. What is a person to do when she is at least partly responsible for the evils she would like to escape, reduce or remedy? What if our desire to do good in the world is tainted by our own harmful actions? Is it possible to act morally or maintain spiritual traditions in a broken world? These are not, of course, new questions. And certainly not new to Buddhist practitioners. They were of great concern in particular to the 13th-century Japanese master, Shinran, the founder of the Jodo Shinshu sect. Master Shinran believed he lived in what is known in Buddhist cosmology as the Age of Dharma Decline, a period, not unlike our own, when traditional forms of spiritual cultivation were on the brink of collapse. Shinran is famous for suggesting that the way to respond to “dirty” times — of social and spiritual dissolution and decay — is to cultivate a path to the Pure Land, a simple pristine faith in Amitabha Buddha. While the object of faith may be pristine, however, Shinran taught that the way to the Pure Land wasn’t, and still isn’t, pure at all. On his account, we can both be complicit and hold ourselves responsible for trying to make a difference. This is a lesson particularly suited to degenerate times. Pure Land Buddhism does not want us to give up our moral lives, but to give up the pretensions that often accompany them. It believes in very modest forms of moral improvement, eked out over the life of individuals and their communities, especially when they are largely flawed. Shin Buddhism responded very directly to the problem of inevitable and thoroughgoing complicity. Unlike the more traditional Buddhists Dogen and Honen — two closely related teachers — Shinran was never able to shake the sense that he was, from the start, unable to fulfill the duties and ideals of monastic life; he was simply too botched. In the past, salvation might have been achieved by good works or karmic progress, but, according to the Buddhist cosmology to which Shinran adhered, this time was long gone. It is precisely where he failed, however, that he succeeded as a teacher. The pain of self-understanding (that he wasn’t suited for the priesthood) passed seamlessly into self-critique, and, ultimately, into a form of confession that remains unique in Buddhist teaching today. His suggestion is clear: Salvation may turn on pure faith, but sincere faith turns on the constant acknowledgment of unavoidable imperfection. Shinran writes: “Each of us in outward bearing makes a show of being wise, good, and dedicated. But so great are our greed, anger, perversity and conceit that we are filled with all forms of malice and cunning.” This is the sort of admission that many spiritual seekers (and, for that matter, angry, self-righteous moralists or politicians) don’t want to hear. It suggests that there is no transcendent escape, that, in Shinran’s words “hell is my permanent abode, my house.” To be clear, this admission is not spoken from a place of despair or a certain type of quietism; it is, instead, a brave realism about the human condition that is cleareyed about the realities of moral and spiritual development. Alexis Shotwell, a Canadian sociologist and philosopher whose recent book “Against Purity” resonates with strains of Jodo Shinshu, writes that “what’s needed, instead of a pretense to purity that is impossible in the actually existing world, is something else. We need to shape better practices of responsibility and memory for our placement in relation to the past, our implication in the present and our potential creation of different futures.” Aiming for individual purity, Shotwell says, echoing the ancient sage, is counterproductive. When we do, he argues, we become solipsistic, narcissistic and self-focused. When one bathes, or meditates, or hikes, or works out, or eats — one typically does so, at least in the West, by oneself. It is my naturally harvested luffa sponge, my thoughts to control and my mind to clear, my $300 Alpine boots, my home gym, my cucumber on sprouted bread sandwich, my quest for perfection. And decidedly not yours. Part of the problem, Shinran believes, is that each of us actually think we know the way to purity and enlightenment. Each of us thinks we can get there by ourselves. He is quite clear on this point: we don’t have a clue how to achieve salvation. “I know nothing at all of good and evil,” Shinran admits, “ … with a foolish being full of blind passions — in this burning house — all matters without exception are empty and false.” This is what Western philosophers term “epistemic humility” — a deep Socratic sense that one knows that he or she doesn’t know. For Shinran, this is a pivotal form of spiritual prostration — a laying low of the last vestiges of selfhood. Everything in human existence is equally meaningful or meaningless, take your pick. In being “against purity” — in knowing “nothing at all about good and evil” — Shinran also stood against the standard way that most Buddhists of his day understood themselves and enlightenment. He was neither a monk, nor a layperson, and didn’t fit in anywhere. Traditional teachers called him a fool or a heretic, and upon being exiled to the remote province of Echigo, Shinran embraced his outsider status, assuming the name Gutoku — “the stubble-faced idiot.” There are stubble-faced idiots who don’t know they are stubble-faced idiots, and there are those who do. These idiots — the ones with self-knowledge, like Shinran — might be better equipped to mitigate the effects of their idiocy. Some Buddhists worry that Pure Land Buddhism takes the dharma too far in the direction of resignation away from the world in favor of faith. But resignation has its virtues. It means that you might have the chance to get over yourself and consider the power and vulnerability of something else. Resignation is not regarded as a virtue in our society, but perhaps it should be. Perhaps knowing when to let go, when to relinquish control, when to free ourselves from the habits of thought that so often constrain us — maybe this is true prudence, what many ancient sages regarded as the virtue of virtues. There is no habit of thought that is as pervasive as the aspiration to purity and perfection, but we suspect, along with Shotwell and Shinran, that it is almost always self-defeating. It comes as no surprise that the greatest champions of purity and perfection among us are revealed as the most flagrant hypocrites. Until we confront our complicity, we can never improve ourselves or the moral and spiritual circumstances we inhabit and help to create. It is high time to make our home in the “impure land.” After all, it is where most of us already live.