Is there a constitutional right to discriminate? That should be an easy “no.” But in President Trump’s America, that question will be argued in the Supreme Court on Tuesday. The case, Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, involves Dave Mullins and Charlie Craig, whom I have represented since 2015. They were planning their wedding in 2012, and one of the details they were excited about was the cake. Mr. Craig’s mother, Debbie Munn, was set to visit them that summer, so they decided to wait for her to choose it. What should have been a special day became memorable for the wrong reasons. Masterpiece Cakeshop refused even to discuss a cake with them because Mr. Mullins and Mr. Craig are a gay couple. The bakery’s owner, Jack Phillips, told them that he would not bake a cake of any kind for their wedding. The family was shocked. As Ms. Munn said: “We went into that store happy. We left broken.” What happened that day was humiliating for the family. But it wasn’t complicated. Colorado law provides that retail stores open to the public can’t refuse to serve customers based on factors like race, religion or sexual orientation. Seeking to upend this rule, whose origins date to 1885, the bakery wants a constitutional right to discriminate, in violation of Colorado’s Anti-Discrimination Act, that is premised on the freedoms of religion and speech. While the bakery’s legal claims may appear to be novel, its arguments are nothing more than old wine in new bottles. For half a century, businesses have claimed that the First Amendment should excuse them from complying with laws against discrimination, but the Supreme Court has rejected those excuses at every turn. In the 1960s, Piggie Park, a South Carolina chain of barbecue restaurants, opposed serving black diners in its sandwich shop because the owner believed that racial integration “contravenes the will of God.” The Supreme Court found that Piggie Park violated Title II of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, calling its religious defense frivolous. In the 1980s, Bob Jones University refused to admit students who engaged in or advocated for interracial dating because of its view that the Bible forbids such relationships. The Supreme Court found that the university’s policy discriminated based on race, notwithstanding the sincerity of its religious beliefs. As recently as 1984, the law firm King & Spalding argued that it should not have to consider women for partnership because of its right of free expression. But as the Supreme Court said then, “invidious private discrimination may be characterized as a form of exercising freedom of association protected by the First Amendment, but it has never been accorded affirmative constitutional protections. There is no constitutional right” to discriminate. Mr. Phillips is free to express his dissent from Colorado’s equal-service rule, as he has done. He has communicated his views about marriage for same-sex couples far and wide, appearing on national television and in the pages of this newspaper. That’s exactly what the First Amendment protects. But when he opens a business that holds itself out as open to the public, he can’t use those beliefs to discriminate in violation of state law. That creates a very real conflict for Mr. Phillips. But it is the same conflict that existed for Maurice Bessinger, the owner of Piggie Park, who held religious beliefs opposing integration when the Civil Rights Act was passed in 1964. The Supreme Court has already confronted that tension, and it has struck the proper balance. Just as Mr. Bessinger’s beliefs did not entitle Piggie Park to discriminate against black customers then, Mr. Phillips’s beliefs do not entitle Masterpiece Cakeshop to discriminate against L.G.B.T. people today. While the bakery claims that it did not discriminate against Mr. Mullins and Mr. Craig because it was willing to sell them cookies and brownies, just not a cake for their wedding, that argument, too, is a familiar one. After all, Bob Jones University claimed that it did not discriminate based on race because it admitted black students, just not those in interracial relationships. Both policies brand members of minority groups as second-class citizens, and both are discriminatory. It’s important to remember that conflicts between religious beliefs and the law are not specific to laws against discrimination. They exist whenever a business owner holds views in tension with generally applicable regulations of commercial conduct. In 1982, for example, the Supreme Court considered the case of Edwin Lee, a member of the Old Order Amish who objected on religious grounds to paying Social Security taxes on behalf of his employees. The court did not doubt that Mr. Lee’s objection was sincerely held, but it required him to pay taxes nonetheless, in part because granting him an exemption would harm his employees. So, too, exempting a business from anti-discrimination laws today would harm consumers, who would be left to wonder where they could shop and where they would be turned away. Of course, consumers in metropolitan areas may be able to buy what they need elsewhere. But the issue here isn’t access to wedding cakes. It’s the freedom to be a full participant in civic and economic life. As Congress observed when debating the Civil Rights Act of 1964, “discrimination is not simply dollars and cents, hamburgers and movies; it is the humiliation, frustration, and embarrassment that a person must surely feel when he is told that he is unacceptable as a member of the public.” Allowing businesses to turn away L.G.B.T. people, even if limited to the wedding context, would put the government’s imprimatur on discrimination. Now the Supreme Court must decide whether to turn back time or to continue our nation’s progress toward recognizing the humanity of L.G.B.T. people.