On Sept. 24, 1963, George McGovern, the junior senator from South Dakota, addressed a full chamber on America’s growing entanglement in Southeast Asia. His words rang like a fire bell in the night. “The current dilemma in Vietnam is a clear demonstration of the limitations of military power,” the 41-year-old Democrat declared, just before the vote on a record-breaking defense appropriation. “There in the jungles of Asia, our mighty nuclear arsenal, our $50 billion arms budget, and our costly ‘special forces’ have proved powerless to cope with a ragged band of illiterate guerrillas fighting with homemade weapons.” Even worse, in Saigon, American resources were being used “to suppress the very liberties we went in to defend,” he continued. “The failure in Vietnam will not remain confined to Vietnam. The trap we have fallen into there will haunt us in every corner of this revolutionary world if we do not properly appraise its lessons” and “rely less on armaments and more on the economic, political and moral sources of our strength.” McGovern’s prophetic warning was among the earliest of such trenchant commentaries in either house of Congress. It was a prelude to his impassioned opposition to Lyndon Johnson’s escalation of the war, an opposition that would split the Democratic Party in two. Though the rift between liberal hawks and antiwar activists is often depicted as a generational struggle, between New Dealers and cold warriors on one hand and the student activists of the New Left on the other, it was also between men like McGovern — principled, veteran politicians — and a White House that they believed had led their party, and the country, toward disaster. McGovern was no pacifist. As a B-24 bomber pilot during World War II, he had flown 35 missions over Germany and Austria and won the Distinguished Flying Cross. Those combat experiences, which placed him at the center of world-changing events, motivated him to pursue a doctorate in history and stoked his ambition to run for Congress. His political career was marked by humanitarian efforts and legislative expertise in agriculture and education. In 1961, President Kennedy had appointed him director of the Food for Peace program. Marshaling huge volumes of surplus food and fiber, McGovern engineered a vast expansion of an overseas school-lunch initiative that would soon be feeding tens of millions of hungry children around the world. Advertisement In fact, McGovern wasn’t all that different from Johnson, at least on domestic issues. Both embraced civil rights, education and expanded health care; McGovern considered Johnson the second coming of Franklin Roosevelt. But a fundamental difference separated them. Johnson believed that to conduct his War on Poverty and build his Great Society he must fight communism in Southeast Asia. McGovern believed that to achieve a truly great society, the United States must curtail military interventionism in the name of anticommunism and pursue a negotiated settlement in Vietnam. McGovern was one of only a dozen members of Congress to speak up against the war in its opening stages. In early 1965, just after the bombing campaign known as Rolling Thunder began, he went on CBS News to denounce the operation, and he predicted “a staggering loss of life out of all proportion to the stakes involved,” creating such enormous instability “that indeed we invite a much worse situation than the one that exists.” In June 1965, a month before Johnson escalated the ground war, McGovern pointed out that the Viet Cong were “a part of the people and terrain” and “in many cases are farmers by day and fighters by night. To bomb them is to bomb the women and children, the villagers and peasants with whom they are intermingled. To destroy their crops is to destroy the countryside on which the general population depended.” To escalate the war, he said, “would only strengthen the guerrilla’s cause” in the eyes of the South Vietnamese and “destroy the moral influence of the United States in Asia.” By 1967 no country in the history of warfare had been subjected to heavier air assaults than Vietnam. From March 1965 to December 1967, B-52s rained down 1.5 million tons of bombs — a half million on the North, a million on the South — exceeding the combined tonnage of bombs dropped by all the belligerents in World War II. Most of North Vietnam’s infrastructure lay in ruins. Napalm and Agent Orange had destroyed half of all of South Vietnam’s forests. Already nearly 16,000 American soldiers had lost their lives; over 60,000 had been wounded. Vietnamese deaths numbered in the hundreds of thousands. To accomplish these feats, the United States was spending $2 billion a month, more than the War on Poverty’s entire budget for 1966. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. This insensate destruction of innocent lives and Vietnam’s countryside impelled the greatest antiwar movement in American history. Alongside the activists, a growing number of establishment Democrats, including Senators Eugene McCarthy and Robert Kennedy, at last joined McGovern in openly opposing the war. In April 1967 these developments moved Johnson to call Gen. William Westmoreland home to assure Americans there was “light at the end of the tunnel.” When the general denounced “recent unpatriotic acts here at home” that fed enemy morale, the next day McGovern responded with a speech he called “The Lesson of Vietnam,” which The Times reprinted. “Of all the speeches on that subject,” Kennedy would later say, this one “had the greatest influence across the country.” “I do not intend to remain silent in the face of what I regard as a policy of madness,” McGovern began. This conflict was “the most tragic diplomatic and moral failure in our national experience,” for it was “a defeat for America whether we ‘win’ or ‘lose.’ ” And if it did not end soon, “our dreams of a Great Society and a peaceful world will turn to ashes.” Only “by a crude misreading of history and a distortion of our most treasured ideals” could anyone defend the war, “essentially a civil conflict among various groups of Vietnamese.” The challenge of communism in any event could not be met “by forcing an American solution on a people still in search of their own national identity.” Above all, Americans must learn that “conflicts of this kind have historical dimensions that are essentially political, economic and psychological; they do not respond readily to military force from the outside,” McGovern said. Corrupt regimes like the one in Saigon did not “deserve to be saved by the blood of American boys.” Congress, he concluded, “must never again surrender its power under our constitutional system by permitting an ill-advised, undeclared war,” thus rendering its function “very largely one of acquiescence.” Advertisement A year later, in the wake of the Tet offensive, Johnson’s withdrawal from politics and the assassinations of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert Kennedy, a “Draft McGovern” movement thrust the senator into the contest for the 1968 Democratic presidential nomination. He did not win the nomination, but he emerged from the disastrous Chicago convention with an enhanced reputation; national publications named him one of the three most likely prospects for 1972, while South Dakotans re-elected him to the Senate by a 58 point margin of victory in November. McGovern ran for, and won, the 1972 nomination, and then got crushed by Richard Nixon in one of the most lopsided elections in American history. But lost in the banner headline of his defeat was the vision of political liberalism and America that the senator brought to the campaign trail: an all-embracing rethinking of American internationalism, a critical treatise on the original notion of the “American Century” itself. McGovern actually asked his fellow citizens to think critically about their own country — in particular, about American military and economic interventionism in the Third World and about a nuclear arsenal of such size as to threaten human existence. While millions of Americans did not have enough to eat or a decent place to live, he argued, the Cold War squandered untold treasure that might have been far better spent on programs for economic and social reform; the United States could never fulfill its promise around the globe if it did not fulfill its promise at home. In December 1968, McGovern was invited to contemplate the future in an address to the American Historical Association in New York. As “a practicing politician increasingly grateful for his own historical education,” the senator said, he believed “the quest for a more peaceful international community is the most crucial task of our age.” It was his conviction that “the only potential gain” that could come of the war in Vietnam was “the humility and wisdom that may guide us toward a more rational view of our future role in the international community.” The real issue “is whether the United States shall continue to intervene unilaterally in the affairs of other states as we have done during the 1960s,” he said, or “seek to move away from this go-it-alone approach toward a greater measure of international cooperation based on a respect for the world’s diversity.” McGovern could not have guessed that the war would go on for another four years — nor, for that matter, that he had put his finger on the core problem of American foreign policy that would endure into the 21st century. Thomas J. Knock is professor of history at Southern Methodist University and the author of “The Rise of a Prairie Statesman: The Life and Times of George McGovern.” Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 