In the summer of 2013 I rented an apartment in Hanoi, down a quiet alley across the street from Ba Dinh Square, in the center of the city. The apartment was beautiful — bright and big and outfitted with a flat-screen TV and a newly remodeled kitchen. It cost $400 a month, which was expensive by Hanoi standards, but I needed a place short term and I figured I could always make extra money teaching English. The other tenants in the building were a mix of expats and wealthy Vietnamese. There was a young Vietnamese couple in the apartment above, and a British guy below me who worked as an English teacher, and another British English teacher across the hall. Every morning I sat at the coffee table in front of my TV and tried to write the novel I’d come to Hanoi to work on. It was about an American soldier who decides to stay in-country after his tour is over. This was something that actually happened — not in huge numbers, obviously, but enough service members chose to live in South Vietnam as civilians that in the final days before the fall of Saigon, American Embassy staff members found themselves suddenly overwhelmed with the task of evacuating thousands of Americans they had not known were still there. This was not a detail usually included in narratives of the war, which is why I’d been drawn to writing about it. But my novel wasn’t going well. The writing felt like trudging through quicksand. It didn’t come easy, trying to hash out the details of a fictional war story and the three-dimensional contours of my invented American soldier protagonist. Advertisement Of course there were real Vietnamese soldiers all over Hanoi who had been in the war. The rate of conscription in North Vietnam had been so high that chances were any roughly middle-aged man — and many women — had once been a soldier in the fight against the Americans. The woman piloting a motorbike through heavy traffic on Doi Can or the men drinking iced coffees at a sleepy cafe around the corner from the alley or the of aging Hanoians taking their daily exercise on the sprawling fairway of Ba Dinh Square, in the shadow of the Ho Chi Minh mausoleum — they were probably all veterans. Binh, the security guard in the building where I lived that summer, had been an infantryman in the North Vietnamese Army. In the early 1970s, he traveled along the Ho Chi Minh Trail down to the south, dodging American bombs, until, in April 1975, his unit reached Saigon and the war finally ended. “It was scary and loud,” Binh said about the bombing, speaking slowly because my Vietnamese was bad. He gave a little shiver as if the memory disgusted him. “Too much, too much. It wasn’t good.” We were standing on the ground floor of the apartment building, in the dank cement room where the tenants parked their motorbikes and Binh (whom I addressed as “Chu,” the term I would use for any man around my father’s age) slept every night on a small, army-style cot. Next to the cot were a rice cooker and a hot plate where he cooked all his meals. After the war, Chu Binh had returned to his que — his hometown in the northern countryside — married, fathered two kids and tried to make a living by growing rice. “I had to send my kids to go study,” he said, explaining that he’d eventually been forced to find work in the city to pay for the university fees. I’m not sure exactly how he’d hooked up with the landlord in our building, but their agreement definitely wasn’t generous. Binh watched the motorbikes all day and all night, with time off to go back to his que only once a year, during the Tet holiday. Except for short excursions to the end of the alley to buy vegetables and meat, he was confined to the ground floor with the motorbikes. Mui and Thanh, who lived with their families in houses further down the alley, were also N.V.A. veterans. Sometimes when I’d come down in the morning to get my motorbike they’d be hanging out with Chu Binh, the three of them perched on small plastic stools playing co tuong (Chinese chess), smoking cigarettes and drinking strong black tea. I would sometimes sit down with them. Mui, whom I also called Chu, was small and handsome with a thick tuft of jet-black hair and a face that reminded me of the actor Alain Delon. (There was French blood in his family, Chu Mui had mentioned on more than one occasion.) Thanh, whom we all called “Ong,” the term for an grandfather, because he was older, was tall and lanky, with broad swimmer’s shoulders and thinning white hair. Binh, meanwhile, was younger than both of them; wiry and dark, he often let Mui and Thanh do most of the talking, at least when I was around. Advertisement They all knew that I was a writer, and maybe they assumed that I was writing something about the war. But when the subject came up — which it did occasionally, in a natural way, the way that something which has been so all consuming inevitably seeps into everyday life — it was clear they weren’t interested in talking about it. Instead, they wanted to ask me questions — about my family, about what we ate in America, about how much we paid for our homes and cars, about how much money we made at work. They wondered how I could have ever traveled so far away from my parents, especially since I was an only child. It was obvious that they questioned my loyalty as a son. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. “For Mom,” Chu Mui said one time, tapping the tattoo on his bicep that said, in a loopy cursive, “nho” — remember. “Your mother always comes first. You have to remember that.” One day, Ong Thanh invited me inside his house for tea. We sat in awkward silence as his wife prepared the tea and a plate of cookies. The TV, tuned to a random game show, droned on in the background. Then, out of nowhere, Ong Thanh brought up the war. He seemed slightly annoyed by the topic, as if it were a persistent fly that needed to be swatted so we could move on. What he said didn’t last more than a few minutes, and I had trouble understanding everything. I remember he talked in general about how hard it was, all the sacrifices people had made, and about how nobody had wanted to fight but there was no choice — the foreigners had to be expelled from the country. And then the talk was over. Ong Thanh was still in a cheerful and friendly mood, as usual. We had our tea and cookies. Both Thanh and Mui, I gathered eventually, had had a different experience of the war from Binh. This might have had something to do with class, with the fact that Mui and Thanh were from relatively well-off Hanoian families, and Binh was poor and from the countryside. It seemed like this also explained why they were willing to talk to me individually about it but not when the four of us were together — as if it were an awkward reminder of the fact that they’d been born into different social strata. Other Hanoians shared their experiences of the war with me that summer as well. I remember sitting around after a delicious meal at a friend’s house, eating plates of freshly peeled pomelo and pineapple, when my friend’s father started talking matter-of-factly about how an American pilot had dropped a bomb on his family’s home in the Old Quarter, the densely packed residential neighborhood that’s always been the heart and soul of Hanoi. The bomb leveled the building and killed three kids who were at home studying. My friend’s father survived only because he’d disobeyed his mom and sneaked out to play. He and his family lost everything; they lived on the streets after that for six months. One of my students in the English class I eventually ended up teaching remarked that it had been difficult for his father to maintain their farm in Thanh Hoa Province after losing a leg fighting the Americans. Another friend mentioned casually that her father would be travelling to Quang Ngai Province that weekend with some of his old war buddies, a yearly trip they took to the site of their former battlefields to search, with the help of a psychic, for the remains of their missing comrades. Advertisement Again, all of these stories about the war were unsolicited. It’s not as if I went looking for them. But everyone, it seemed, had a war story. As a national event, the war with America had been so broadly destructive that it had, quite literally, touched everyone. Three million Vietnamese people died in the conflict, roughly 7 percent of the country’s population at the time, according to the most widely accepted current estimates. Two million of those killed were civilians. The immensity of this loss of life gets glossed over in the new Ken Burns and Lynn Novick documentary “The Vietnam War,” which mentions the staggering figure of three million in passing near the end of the final episode. The series then ends with a half-hour devoted to the construction of and reactions to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, which stretches over roughly 500 feet of park space near the Lincoln Memorial. If the Vietnamese had erected their own gabbro stone walls etched with the names of citizens killed in the war, their wall would stretch over four miles long. The Burns-Novick documentary isn’t alone in its myopia. American assessments of the war, both fictional and historical, typically gloss over the heavy toll paid by the Vietnamese people in the conflict. Even when we try — as, to be fair, the Burns-Novick film does — to make a good-faith effort to include the Vietnamese “perspective,” we still fall short. As the Vietnamese-American novelist Aimee Phan wrote recently, American narratives of the war rarely deviate from their “shiny center: the white American soldier and his complex feelings of fear, hatred, guilt and remorse.” The Vietnam War wasn’t an American tragedy, as so many of our novels and films position it. It was a Vietnamese tragedy enabled by America — by American firepower, misguided foreign policy, ignorance, greed, selfishness, racism and duplicity. If I’d been more on top of it that summer in Hanoi and less lost in a writer’s solipsism — not to mention my own personal shortsightedness about the war — I might have asked more questions, elicited more details, or maybe recorded some of these stories and anecdotes in a more systematic way. But I didn’t. Instead, I kept working on my novel about an American soldier. The day I left Vietnam at the end of the summer, Chu Mui handed me a note. “After today you will be far from Hanoi,” it said, in the same loopy cursive as the tattoo on his arm. “Ong and Chu Binh and Chu Mui — we will miss you a lot. We wish your father and mother well. Best of luck to you in the future.” Joseph Babcock teaches writing at the University of California, San Diego. He is translating an anthology of short fiction by writers from North Vietnam. Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 