To keep its graduate students from unionizing, Harvard is pushing the government to weaken important protections for workers across the United States. That’s not how the university puts it, of course. But as law students who came to Harvard to study labor, we are alarmed by the implications of the anti-organizing tactics the school is using against its students. The institution is poised to hobble unions far beyond our Cambridge campus. As teaching and research assistants at other universities have done, many graduate students at Harvard seek access to collective bargaining. They want basic protections like access to better pay, an independent grievance procedure for sexual harassment cases and adequate health care. Harvard is not unlike other elite institutions that oppose graduate student unionization attempts, but its current legal strategy poses a threat to workers inside and outside the academy. To understand how the university could gut workers’ rights, it’s important to explain the importance of what is called, in labor law, the “Excelsior list.” Workers across many industries can vote for union representation if 30 percent of employees want it. The workers can choose a union for representation and then file for an election, and all eligible employees have a right to vote on whether to unionize or not. In the past, during the lead-up to a unionization vote, employers could easily make their case against unionization but hopeful unions had no way of ensuring that all potential voters knew about the organizing campaign. In 1966 the National Labor Relations Board decided that this issue for workers — specifically, a “lack of information with respect to one of the choices available” — impeded their free choice in voting. The board declared that employers must provide unions with a master list of their employees, an Excelsior list, to ensure that union supporters could make their case to everyone before the election. A complete list of employees is no minor detail. It is crucial to fair union elections. That is why it was so egregious that Harvard left over 500 eligible students off the Excelsior list last year before a student vote on unionization. Incomplete or inaccurate Excelsior lists can reduce voter turnout. In this case, the vote was very close. About 3,000 students cast ballots, but 314 were contested (including 195 ballots that are eligible but have not yet been counted). Students lost by 185 votes. At large workplaces like universities, workers often don’t know all of their colleagues, so communication can be limited without the Excelsior list. And eligible voters who do not appear on the list may think they can’t vote. Accordingly, the N.L.R.B. can regard any errors in an Excelsior list — even the omission of just one employee — as inherently prejudicial to workers who seek to unionize. The school claimed it had difficulty with the payroll system. Regardless, it excluded over 10 percent of eligible student voters from the list, and the vote was immediately challenged. The regional labor board director ordered a new, fair election. Rather than comply, Harvard appealed to the N.L.R.B. and asked its newly appointed Trump-aligned majority to let employers argue they should be let off the hook for failing to create a complete and accurate Excelsior list — challenging the necessity of the list itself. Elite universities have postured themselves as bulwarks against the Trump administration’s reactionary agenda, rightfully coming out in full force against the travel ban and changes to DACA. But when it comes to labor rights, universities have been more than willing to partner with the forces they otherwise publicly condemn. If the rules around Excelsior lists are weakened, employers could get away with stifling communication between unions and employees. Lobbying groups like the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and union-avoidance law firms know this. They have long invited  employers to challenge the underpinnings of the Excelsior rule, seeking to deal labor organizing a deathblow. We’re embarrassed that Harvard took the bait. We came here to learn how to shape the law in service of justice for working Americans, but our university is showing us just how easily it can be manipulated in the other direction. By asking the N.L.R.B. to chip away at Excelsior lists to squelch student workers’ attempt to organize, Harvard risks making the uphill battle of unionizing an even steeper task for all American workers. We were arguably naïve to hope that Harvard would take the high road and drop its appeal given its shameful record of cutting benefits from its lowest-paid workers. Last year, Harvard’s dining service workers went on strike for several weeks before the university agreed to a modest pay increase and affordable health care. The richest university in the country, with an endowment of over $37 billion, agreed to raise dining service workers’ salaries by 3.5 percent only after a 22-day union strike. Harvard Law School boasts that its mission is to “educate leaders who contribute to the advancement of justice and the well-being of society.” It’s a shame the school won’t lead by example.