By the time you’re 33 and you’ve flown solo at more weddings than you can count, the idea of spending a Sunday morning attending three of them is about as appealing as a nude December dip in the Gowanus Canal. Yet that’s exactly what I did last weekend, along with some 1,300 other New Yorkers. None of us knew a single bride or groom. No one brought a gift. Yet there we were, packed into the pews of an Upper East Side synagogue, crying as the newlyweds exchanged vows and smashed glasses under the huppah. Our tears were not just for the couples’ obvious love for each other, as palpable as it was, or because the brides looked stunning in gowns given to them by Kleinfeld Bridal, though they did. Those tears were also because the ritual was more than a wedding: It was a moment of proud political defiance for three couples who can’t or won’t marry in the state they call home. It just so happens that the state is the world’s only Jewish one. In Israel, there is no civil marriage. All elements of religious life — from the kosher certification of food to conversion to circumcisions, marriages and burials — are controlled by the rabbinate. In Israel, then, the official religion is not just Judaism. It’s Orthodoxy. Thus Israel’s religious monopoly presents an immovable obstacle for people like Ori Berwald Shaer and Alona Livneh, L.G.B.T. activists who exchanged vows on Sunday. The couple couldn’t do so in Israel because the rabbinate doesn’t recognize same-sex marriage. The power of the rabbinate is an equally major stumbling block for converts like Elizabetha Komkov, who promised to spend the rest of her days with Valentine Boldovskiy, a man she met at Hebrew school in St. Petersburg. Both immigrated to Israel from their native Russia, where they reunited five years ago. But like so many immigrants from the former Soviet Union, under Jewish religious law (Halakha), Ms. Komkov was not considered technically Jewish. Stalin ripped away her Jewish roots when her great-grandmother, born a Jew, was given away to a Christian family to save her life. Her name was changed, and there was no documentation for her great-granddaughter to later prove her Jewishness. After Ms. Komkov’s 2004 immigration to Israel with her parents, she converted — but within the Reform movement, which is not recognized by the rabbinate. So it was impossible for her to marry in the Jewish state. The rabbinate’s power is also unacceptable to Israelis like Gali Geberovich and Alon Sela, whose love story is like something out of a Leon Uris novel. The pair met on a kibbutz in 2010, after their mandatory army service. He milked cows. She grew scallions. This couple would face no technical problem marrying in Israel, but Ms. Geberovich and Mr. Sela insist that their feminist values make such a choice a nonstarter. They note, for example, that the Orthodox Jewish marriage contract, the ketubah, is a one-way agreement in which the groom acquires the bride. And so these six Israelis left the Jewish state and flew across the world to marry in a Jewish community that would recognize their unions as kosher. Temple Emanu-El, a Reform congregation on the Upper East Side, hosted the affair, in which some 40 Conservative and Reform rabbis participated. No detail was too small for Gady Levy, the executive director of the synagogue’s Streicker Center: The ceremony opened with a dramatic procession of violinists playing “Sunrise, Sunset”; it ended with white cupcakes for all of the guests. In the lobby, everyone was invited to sign a giant card addressed to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel: “The current system,” it read, “does not fit with Israel’s democratic values or nature. This is another way that the Israeli government denies freedom of religion, destroys pluralism and keeps many Jews from feeling part of the Jewish state.” Standing before us, beaming through their tears, were six casualties of the current system. All three couples expressed their love for Israel during the ceremony and their commitment to building families there. And yet they also expressed anger and sorrow over the fact that the state to which they are so passionately dedicated shuns their relationships. Ms. Berwald Shaer summed up the collective sentiment when she said to her wife during her vows: “I love you. And I love tradition. And I refuse to choose between the two.” Yet that choice is exactly the one being forced on Israeli couples who are denied the right or refuse to be married under Orthodox auspices. “I do Reform Jewish weddings for couples in Israel, but they aren’t recognized by the state, so these couples have to go abroad to get civil marriages in order to get the benefits of married couples in Israel,” Noa Sattath, a Reform rabbi in Israel who was an officiant on Sunday, explained to me. “Most of them go to Cyprus, which has a booming industry for Israeli marriages. There, they get married by an archbishop under a giant cross. And that wedding, ironically, is the one recognized by the state.” In the case of the three couples married on Sunday, it will be their civil marriages — they went to City Hall — that will be recognized by Israel. Since the founding of Israel in 1948, the Jews of the diaspora have regarded it as the fulfillment of a 2,000-year-old dream. To our grandparents’ and our parents’ generations, Israel was the improbable David, facing dangers entirely foreign to American Jews. Understandably, diaspora Jews, especially those Americans lucky to live in the wealthiest and most powerful Jewish community in history, felt their obligation was to support this pioneering enterprise in any way they could — spiritually, politically and financially. But increasingly, liberal Jews, especially younger ones, feel they are being asked to choose between their commitment to progressive values and their commitment to Israel. Largely that’s because of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the occupation. But Israel’s disregard for the religious liberty of Jews doesn’t ease the tension. As Joshua Davidson, the senior rabbi of Temple Emanu-El, put it to me: “The establishment of Israel is the greatest project of justice for a persecuted people that the world has ever known. But when liberal Jews are asked to check their liberal values at the door, it makes it harder for them to support the Jewish state.” The Israeli government’s decision this summer, for example, to renege on its promise to create a new egalitarian area at the Western Wall in Jerusalem — a religious site that the rabbinate controls and where there are separate areas for men and women — felt, in the words of Salai Meridor, a former Israeli ambassador to the United States, like “a slap in the face to world Jewry.” Jewish leaders across America echoed that sense of betrayal. More than 70 years since its founding, Israel can no longer expect the unconditional support of diaspora Jews if the love remains unrequited. Israel’s highest aspiration may be to be a light among the nations, but it is also a normal nation, where regular people want to go about their business without a religious authority having a say. The Jewish state has so much to teach diaspora Jews about resilience, innovation, energy and optimism. One area where American Jews have something to teach Israel is religious pluralism, something that living in a democracy with a separation between church and state has helped us fine-tune. In a speech before the wedding began, Anat Hoffman, a feminist activist and the executive director of the Israel Religious Action Center, quoted “Hatikvah,” Israel’s national anthem, which expresses the Jewish hope “to be a free people in our land.” But another line came to me as I walked home from the East Side to the West: “Od lo avdah tikvateinu” — “Our hope is not yet lost.”