While President Trump’s allies have unleashed a political assault on the investigation led by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, his lawyers are arguing that Mr. Mueller lacks even the legal authority to investigate the president for obstruction of justice. The president, they maintain, fully controls the executive branch and possesses the constitutional power to dismiss a subordinate like James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, for any reason. They have garnered support for this position from some legal scholars who concur that the president’s motives are not subject to challenge if he is discharging his constitutional functions. But these same scholars and others take comfort in the notion that Congress can impeach the president even if the Department of Justice cannot investigate and prosecute him. We should not worry, they assure us: The offense need not go unanswered. This line of argument mistakenly assumes that if the Department of Justice is stopped from pursing its investigation, Congress is not hindered in holding the president successfully to account for obstruction in the impeachment process. But there’s a problem with this argument: The Department of Justice’s investigative resources and experience are essential in a case like this, in which one key issue is the existence of a criminal motive or intent in a president’s exercise of his constitutional powers. Congress may impeach the president for “high crimes and misdemeanors.” But if, as Mr. Trump’s lawyers maintain, the president’s intent is irrelevant, how can his use of the constitutional authority to fire subordinate officials be a “high crime”? Why does Congress’s power to impeach take precedence over the president’s executive powers? One popular answer is that Congress can define a “high crime” as it wishes, taking a less strictly legal view of obstruction. But that is the point on which the president’s defense — that he is only doing what the Constitution authorizes — puts Congress in a bind. To get out of it, Congress would focus on the commission of the crime of obstruction, which requires scrutiny of intent. Criminal motive is what distinguishes the exercise of constitutional authority from obstruction of justice. But while prosecutors routinely grapple with establishing intent, Congress does not, nor does it have all the investigative tools (like a search warrant) that are available to criminal law enforcement professionals. The two houses of Congress sitting in an impeachment inquiry do not constitute a tribunal well equipped to resolve these kinds of legal issues. The House Judiciary Committee’s approval of obstruction charges against Richard Nixon in 1974 does not show otherwise. The Congress then had evidence of specific illegal acts supporting a charge of obstruction, such as the use of “hush money” to silence witnesses. Nixon’s intent or motive while performing otherwise undisputed constitutional responsibilities was not the issue. It is very much an issue in the case of Donald Trump and possible obstruction in the Russia matter. Yet the establishment of motive is a legal determination that tests Congress’s capacity for thorough, complex investigations of this kind. In the Bill Clinton impeachment process, the House and Senate showed little appetite for any serious investigation. The House conducted no witness depositions, and the Senate only three. The Republican leadership prosecuting the case relied wholly in the House, and primarily in the Senate, on the findings of the independent counsel, Kenneth Starr. Congress may like the security of impeaching for clearly illegal conduct, which helps it fend off the accusation that it is playing politics, but it faces significant limits in these investigative endeavors. Congress must struggle to function in these inquiries with the necessary secrecy, professional resources and time. It must do all this while containing internal partisan political conflicts and pressures. And it must act while mindful of the sensitivity of a legislative probe into an executive’s motivations when performing otherwise constitutionally authorized acts. Impeachment is not a substitute for the criminal justice system. In cases like this, it requires the support of that system — the results of professional investigation and judgment. The attacks on Mr. Mueller, together with Mr. Trump’s lawyers’ embrace of an aggressive legal theory, put in question whether the Department of Justice will be permitted to complete its investigation. Should the president next take the step of firing Mr. Mueller, he would end professionally conducted fact-finding on this crucial question of motive. Congress is then left to respond by trying to complete the department’s job or to proceed to impeachment and a showdown over which branch can claim primacy for its constitutional functions. It faces major challenges in accomplishing the first task, and the second course may lead to constitutional conflict in which, upon impeachment and conviction, the president refuses to vacate his office and the Supreme Court is called on to settle the dispute. Call it Bush v. Gore, the Sequel, another make-or-break case deciding who will be — or, in this instance, remain — president. The preservation of presidential accountability to the rule of law requires the protection of the department’s role. If the professional prosecutors conclude that they will not bring a charge of obstruction, Congress will have the benefit of the evidence accumulated in the investigation in making its own judgment about impeachment. Or the special counsel may determine that indictment is justified and proceed to prosecute, which will also force the issue of whether the president can be indicted while in office. The president is highly likely to argue the case for his immunity, but he should have no confidence that he will succeed. Beginning with United States v. Nixon, through later decisions in the Clinton years against presidential claims of privilege or of immunity from civil suit, the courts have stood firmly behind the proposition that the president is not above the law. Whether or not an investigation concludes with an indictment, Congress will gain the tested evidence that it needs to assess the basis for impeachment for obstruction. Congress and the department would each be able to do what they are cut out to do. Nothing prevents criminal investigations and impeachment processes from running concurrently, as they have in the past. Mr. Trump and his lawyers should not prevail on a position that puts him beyond the reach of criminal investigation while seriously undermining Congress’s capacity for evaluating the grounds for impeachment. These are the stakes in the battle over the future of the special counsel’s investigation.