This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Susan Collins, the Republican senator from Maine, hasn’t had the greatest few days. She provided a crucial vote for the tax bill in exchange for some promises from her Republican colleagues that they now will likely not keep. My column today looks at the mistake she made. Above all, I think she has defined centrism in relative terms rather than substantive terms. She is chasing President Trump and the Republican leadership in Congress even as they move far to the right. The dilemma she faces is one that just about every centrist Republican will face at some point during the Trump era. I hope others learn from Collins’s struggles. It’s best to define centrism on substantive grounds, not merely political ones. Here’s my column. Media critic in chief. Trump launched two new attacks on the media this weekend, specifically calling out CNN and a Washington Post reporter for errors. The best thing I read about these episodes was a series of tweets from David Frum, the Atlantic writer. And: “Never forget, though, that the media are not the protagonist in the drama. The protagonists are the officials engaged in the deception, headed by the president himself.” But read the whole series. It’s only 10 tweets long. (And to answer a reader’s recent question: No, you do not need a Twitter account to read tweets like these.) Trump’s accusers. Nikki Haley, Trump’s United Nations ambassador, said yesterday that the women who have accused the president of sexual harassment “should be heard.” For a refresher, here are some of their stories, via Margaret Hartmann of New York magazine. Some of Trump’s accusers will appear together in public for the first time this morning to urge Congress to investigate their claims. Three of them will appear on Megyn Kelly’s NBC talk show this morning as well. When dumb is good. One of my favorite pieces this weekend was Jim Reische arguing in The Times’s Sunday Review for the importance of letting young people make stupid mistakes without incurring “the wrath of the entire internet.”