San Francisco — Gov. Jerry Brown of California and lawmakers in Sacramento pulled off a huge political feat last summer when they renewed one of the state’s premier climate programs. The governor sought a two-thirds majority to insulate the program from legal challenges, and he got there by winning support from eight Republican lawmakers. It was a sharp and welcome contrast to the political dysfunction in Washington. Now California must write the detailed regulations that will turn the governor’s vision into reality. As supporters of strong action to tackle climate change, we are worried that the state government may be sleepwalking its way into a serious problem. Getting the program, known as “cap and trade,” right matters far beyond the borders of California. It is the best-designed plan of its type in the world to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, and has already been adopted by two Canadian provinces. China is paying close attention too, and the plan may well become a model for that country’s efforts to cut its emissions, the largest of any nation. Within California itself, the public has been suffering from droughts, wildfires and other weather disasters that are aggravated by a warming climate. The recent fires that have forced thousands of people to evacuate parts of Los Angeles ought to focus some minds in Sacramento, the state capital, on how more can be done to reduce climate risks. California’s cap and trade program sets a limit — the cap — on almost all of the state’s fossil fuel emissions, which decline each year. Companies either have to comply with the cap by reducing their emissions or buy permits that allow them to continue to pollute. Those permits are periodically auctioned off by the state and can also be bought and sold on the open market — the trade. The basic idea is that putting a price on emissions will encourage companies to find ways to cut them that are cheaper than having to buy permits. The program has operated successfully since 2013. But for various reasons — including the lingering effects of the Great Recession, as well as big achievements by the electricity industry in cutting greenhouse gases under a separate set of programs — emissions in the state have been relatively low throughout this period. As a result, companies had little problem meeting the cap, which was great news. The situation also meant that the permits were cheap because there wasn’t much demand for them. So businesses behaved just the way you or we might if Costco threw a big sale on paper towels. Knowing they would be able to use the things eventually, greenhouse gas emitters stockpiled tens of millions of permits. The permits never expire, which is now a problem, because the mechanism for forcing emissions reductions is to ratchet down the number of permits the state makes available each year. The surplus threatens to upend that process. So in the 2020s, when California’s emissions limits are scheduled to get much tighter, the stockpile effectively means that many businesses will be able to stay within the more stringent caps by using their old permits, which will allow them to spew more greenhouse gases into the air than the policy intended. The state’s Air Resources Board must tackle this crucial issue. Later this week, the board is expected to approve a framework for regulating emissions to 2030, and so far no fix for the permit surplus is included. Getting it right is critical, because the program is expected to account for nearly 40 percent of emissions reductions under the new framework. Fortunately, the fix is straightforward. The Air Resources Board simply needs to adjust future emissions limits downward to take account of the surplus permits already in the marketplace. A consortium of states in the Northeast, which has a more limited cap-and-trade program that applies only to the power industry, took exactly that approach in 2014 when it faced a similar oversupply of permits. But, you ask, won’t tightening the limits offend those companies and investors who, like dutiful Costco shoppers, had the good sense to buy the permits when they were cheap? No. The minute the board adjusts the limits, the price of permits is likely to rise as demand for them increases. It will be like somebody telling you the paper towels stacked in your garage are worth more than you paid for them. It is true, however, that companies expecting to have to buy a lot of future permits will not like the change. The oil industry, in particular, has savagely fought California’s emissions limits and is likely to warn that tighter emissions limits in the 2020s will raise the price of gasoline. If so, the effect is likely to be no more than a few cents a gallon. (The main factor determining the cost of gas is the price of oil in global markets.) And by the 2020s, dozens of electric car models will be on the market, and gasoline cars will get better mileage under rules that were also pioneered in California and later adopted by the Obama administration. The Air Resources Board must take on the risk posed by this oversupply of permits, sooner rather than later. Governor Brown has only a year left in office. We simply do not know if his successor will be as intelligent about the climate problem, or as committed to action, as he has been. California has been a world leader in reducing greenhouse emissions, and the governor is rightly treated as a climate hero on the global stage. But that record will be at risk if he leaves office without tackling this issue — potentially tarnishing not just his legacy but also that of the eight Republican lawmakers who were brave enough to defy their party and vote for rational action to save the planet.