In the fall of 1987, a Nashville woman named Teresa Harris decided she’d had enough of her boss’s harassment and quit. Ms. Harris was one of just two female managers at Forklift Systems, a construction equipment supplier, and for two years, she had endured leers, propositions and vulgar “jokes” from the company’s owner, Charles Hardy. (Mr. Hardy had a fondness for jingling change in his front pants pocket and asking Ms. Harris to fish quarters out.) But the final straw came when Ms. Harris told Mr. Hardy she had landed a big client. “What did you do, Teresa?” Mr. Hardy responded, according to testimony. “Promise the guy some bugger on Saturday night?” As Ms. Harris later testified in the sexual harassment case she brought against the company, it was this penchant for trivializing her business acumen, not Mr. Hardy’s pocket change habits, that cut the deepest. “The comments about my ability to do my job and that I was stupid and I was dumb devastated me,” she said. “I hated walking in there.” President Trump’s tweet on Tuesday insinuating that Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York used sex to extract campaign contributions brought this distinctly demeaning form of harassment into sharp relief. Rather than objectify its target as alluring, it dismisses her as incompetent. It tells the woman, and everyone else in her workplace, that she can succeed only if she trades on her sexuality and not because she is smart, savvy or resourceful. There’s a reason a powerful woman so often gets smeared as having “slept her way to the top.” Of course, harassment that manifests as desire (however brutal or twisted) conveys, too, that a woman is valuable at work only insofar as she provides sexual amusement. But suggesting that a woman’s sexuality is responsible for her demonstrable achievements — such as, say, winning election to the United States Senate — is an insult precisely because it implicates her in the harasser’s own low opinion of women’s abilities. Slurs like Mr. Trump’s reinforce the idea that without sex to offer, women are worthless, in the same way harassers do when they demand that women fork over sexual favors to have the chance to achieve with their legitimate labors what their male colleagues do. By 1993, Teresa Harris’s case had made its way to the Supreme Court. The court already had ruled, seven years earlier, that “severe or pervasive” harassment that creates an “abusive work environment” can constitute sex discrimination. At issue in Ms. Harris’s case was what kind of proof was needed for conduct to cross the line from merely offensive to unlawful. The lower courts had refused to find that Charles Hardy’s conduct passed that threshold, because Ms. Harris herself had not shown its effects. Although she had suffered grievously — developing a drinking problem and chronic insomnia, among other symptoms — she had continued to perform exceptionally at work. The court concluded that focusing on the victim’s response to harassment was the wrong inquiry; what mattered was the egregiousness of the conduct itself, and whether a “reasonable person” would find it abusive. Mr. Hardy’s behavior, the justices found, met that test. As Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg observed during oral argument, “If you take a similarly situated man and a woman, and the woman is constantly told, you’re a woman, you think like a woman, and her co-worker is not told those things, doesn’t that make their job more difficult?” How can employment opportunity be equal, she asked, “if one is being called names and the other isn’t?” Senator Gillibrand does not work for President Trump, of course. But as the #MeToo movement forces us to reckon with the varied forms of harassment infecting our workplaces, Mr. Trump’s smear is instructive. We’re now learning just how many bosses and colleagues share his belief that women’s sexual currency is their most salient characteristic. When we see that belief in action, we should call it by its proper name: sex discrimination.