This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. This summer, after my colleagues and I published our attempt at the definitive list of President Trump’s lies, I went on Jacob Weisberg’s podcast to talk about it. Jacob asked about the reaction from readers, and I mentioned a common one from Trump supporters: They didn’t doubt that he sometimes bent the truth. But they thought he was no worse than other recent presidents, and they challenged The Times to do the same exercise for a president other than Trump. Today, we’re publishing the results of that challenge. We analyzed every statement of President Barack Obama’s that had been challenged by fact-checkers (the same methodology we’d used for Trump) and applied the same standard. We were looking for demonstrably untrue statements, defensible under no reasonable interpretation of the facts. In Obama’s case, his demonstrably untrue statements include his infamous lines about a “red line” for Syria and about Americans being able to keep their health insurance if they liked it. They also include lesser-known statements on the high-school dropout rate, American exports and the size of the country’s Muslim population. I encourage you to check out the piece — or, if nothing else, the chart at the top — but here’s one headline number: Obama averaged a little more than two blatant, distinct falsehoods per year during his presidency. Trump is on pace for 124 a year. We have also done something that many newsletter readers have been asking for: An updated version of the definitive list of Trump’s lies, which includes repeated lies. The tax deal. The House and Senate have reached a compromise that bridges the gap between their separate tax bills. The differences were modest, in the big picture. Both bills — and the final deal — will cut taxes deeply for the wealthy, increase the deficit and ultimately hurt the middle class. The final deal, in fact, will cut the top marginal tax rate more than either original House or Senate bill. (Some compromise!) It also seems likely to reject Marco Rubio’s pleas for a larger child-tax credit that would help low-income families. A remarkable part of the deal: It appears to ignore many priorities of swing senators, like Rubio, Susan Collins, Jeff Flake and John McCain. Are all of those senators going to fold and vote for the bill anyway? Elsewhere. “Congress needs to be clear now that firing Mueller is unacceptable and un-American — we’re a nation of laws, laws that no one is above,” Max Bergmann and Max Boot write in The Guardian about the special counsel, Robert Mueller. “Failing to protect Mueller is not just moral cowardice, it’s also leaving America’s national security exposed.” Salma Hayek. There’s a good chance you have already read her op-ed on Harvey Weinstein. It drew a gigantic audience yesterday. If you haven’t read it, I recommend it.