DALLAS — “Don’t euthanize your guns!” the man called from across the street to people lining up for our gun buyback, near City Hall in Dallas. “We’ll pay more for your gun over here.” It was the month after the massacre in Newtown, Conn., five years ago, and the community ministry I’m involved with at my church was holding another “buyback” — an opportunity for people to bring in any working handgun, rifle or semiautomatic assault weapon for cash, with the promise that it would be turned into scrap. The man with the bullhorn called again: “Bring us your guns. Let them go to a good home.” Our buybacks had once been placid affairs, averaging about 90 guns per event. The Stewpot, a day shelter for the homeless affiliated with the First Presbyterian Church, organized them out of its concern for community safety. We paid cash — $50 for handguns and rifles and up to $200 for semiautomatic weapons — and had a “no questions asked” policy. We wanted to give people a chance to get rid of their weapons because even in Texas, plenty of people want that chance. We held these events on Valentine’s Day and Mother’s Day, and just before Christmas. The December buyback was always popular. The San Diego Police Department this month discovered that, too — it ran out of money after buying 164 guns with $25,000 in gift cards. People came to our buyback with guns in paper bags, wrapped in rags, in original cardboard boxes or molded custom cases. One gun arrived in a Pokémon box; another in a shoe box that said: “No Kids! Danger.” A majority of the people surrendering their guns said they worried about children: Grandmothers wanted a gun-free environment, as did young women whose fathers gave them a gun for protection when they moved to the city but who were now thinking of starting a family. A few former gang members handed in guns, for reasons not unlike those of young couples who come back to church: They had kids. After Newtown, the gun buyback felt more urgent, a response to our sense of helplessness at the murder of children. We weren’t alone; the Newtown massacre spurred  buybacks across the country. But, following that shooting, the fear that people were coming for their guns was palpably greater, and buybacks became targets for protesters. Perhaps it was the fact that 20 children were killed at an elementary school that made gun owners afraid that voters would demand and actually get some action from Congress — a fear that now seems sadly misplaced. At the last event we held, in December 2013, armed civilians paraded along the street, swarming any car that arrived. Open carry of shotguns is legal in Texas. Sleek, military-style weapons hung off their arms or were slung around their backs. Dallas has been called the buckle of the Bible Belt; open-carry supporters added a holster to that belt. A man with a semiautomatic weapon positioned himself behind me as I directed traffic. He was so close that if we were at a high school dance, one of the chaperones would have separated us. “You are poaching,” I told him. “Have your own event.” “We are buying the guns to give to abused women,” he said. I wanted to point out that a gun in a home where there is domestic violence makes it more dangerous for the victim, not less. I wondered why our buying a gun from someone who wanted to get rid of it so upset those who want to keep their guns. We weren’t taking their guns away from them. Last week, in its first action on significant federal gun legislation since Newtown, the House passed a bill allowing people with permits to carry concealed weapons across state lines. But despite the apparent inability of political leaders to stand up to the National Rifle Association, five years after Newtown and, more than 1,550 mass shootings later, according to one tally, the desire to dispose of a firearm remains. Our group hasn’t figured out safety logistics for another buyback since the events became protest sites. How, then, to get rid of a gun? Check with your local law enforcement. Some departments accept guns to be destroyed. Some require IDs; some do not. Some have amnesty for unregistered guns. Find out about gun buybacks in your area. Or disable your weapon, take it apart so that it is not usable, and dispose of the pieces separately. Never throw a working gun into the garbage. You may inadvertently keep it in circulation. At the end of our first post-Newtown buyback, given the intensity of the attention it had gotten, we were worried that the guns might be stolen from the church before we could have them safely disposed of. So I drove them to my house, hiding the small arsenal under blankets in my car. While our children were growing up, our main rule was that they could not play at a home that had guns. In Dallas, this sometimes involved uncomfortable conversations with their friends’ parents. When our children were teenagers, their request of us was, “Please let us ask the gun question.” Now, incongruously, our living room held 112 firearms and some ammunition. What does a gun buyback accomplish? Some studies claim that it reduces gun violence; others disagree. Nevertheless it gives peace of mind to people who don’t want their guns anymore — and who don’t want their guns to be used in a crime. The gun buyback defines a gun not only as merchandise but also as a weapon. We buy it and then we destroy it, doing unto the weapon what that weapon could do unto others.