For those who weren’t reading my blog before it was folded into the column page, “wonkish” posts were written with economists or highly economics-fluent readers in mind, not the broader public. I put up the “wonkish” as a warning to normal human beings. So here’s one of those on the topic of the day; if funny diagrams and economese aren’t your thing, feel free to skip. Tax experts are going to be up all night trying to figure out what’s really in the bill Republicans dump today, just a couple of days before the vote. I have no skill in reading legislation, so I’ll wait for them to do the job. In the meantime, I had a new thought on claims that corporate tax cuts will produce lots of economic growth – a different way to make the “leprechaun economics” point I’ve been making repeatedly, to little avail. The leprechaun economics message is that even if corporate cuts bring in lots of capital, raising GDP, the gains in GNP – income of domestic residents – will be substantially smaller, because foreign investors will demand a return on their money. It’s leprechaun economics because we see that effect in Ireland, which has attracted lot of capital in part because it has low corporate taxes, but whose GNP is only 75 percent of its GDP, because so much of the value of what it produces accrues to foreign corporations. So how does the model that makes vastly more optimistic predictions than almost everyone else – the Tax Foundation model – take account of this issue? It doesn’t. They don’t even look at GNP. But there’s a way to estimate the true gains implied even by their wildly optimistic approach, by focusing on the fundamental economics of claims that cutting corporate taxes are beneficial to the U.S.. Where do the supposed gains come from? The answer is that as long as we have a corporate tax, the marginal product of capital – which, assuming competition, is also the pre-tax rate of return – is higher than the after-tax rate of return, which is what foreigners get from investing here. So there’s a tax wedge: what the U.S. economy gets in additional production exceeds what we pay out to foreigners. And the gains from capital inflow are due to that wedge. Here’s the general picture I came up with a couple of weeks ago: We have the demand for capital, also equal to its marginal product. We also have a supply of capital, which is elastic because we’re open to capital flows. I’ve drawn an upward-sloping supply curve, for reasons I’ll explain in a minute; Tax Foundation effectively assumes this curve is horizontal. In either case, corporate taxes put a wedge between the cost of capital and its marginal product, as shown in the figure. Tax cuts narrow that wedge, bringing in foreign capital, and for a small tax cut those gains equal the yellow rectangle at the right. It’s not hard to do this for a large tax cut, but it won’t change anything. So how big are the gains – the true gains, measured as gains to domestic residents? They’re equal to the area of that rectangle – the increase in capital multiplied by the size of the wedge. And we know what Tax Foundation is claiming: they predict a big rise in the capital stock. They also predict a 3% gain in GDP. But America doesn’t get all of that increase in GDP. We only get the wedge – the tax differential. Under current taxation that’s 35 percent of profits; that’s set to fall to 21%. The average of these is 28%, implying that the gain to the United States is only 0.28*3 = 0.84 percent of GDP, even using Tax Foundation’s wildly optimistic estimates. So using the very logic that seems to underlie optimism about corporate tax cuts, we actually end up with much smaller numbers for national income. And wait, there’s more. Even in the long run, the U.S. doesn’t face a horizontal supply of capital, because we’re a big player and capital mobility is far from perfect. We definitely don’t face a horizontal supply curve in the short and medium run. As a result, a lot of corporate tax cuts will raise after-tax profits rather than wages. And roughly a third of this profit rise will accrue to foreign investors who are already here. That’s a loss for America’s GNP – the red rectangle at the bottom — that partially or maybe even completely offsets the gain from the wedge. My main point, however, is that we should think about corporate tax cuts the way we think about other economic policies: the gains come from reducing existing distortions. In this case, the distortion is a tax that puts a wedge between domestic returns and the cost of imported capital. If you take the logic of the case for gains from corporate tax cuts seriously, it still implies that only the narrowing of the wedge produces gains – and that means that only a smallish fraction of the gains in GDP, however large they may (or may not) be, actually stays here.