There appears to be a common sentiment in America that things have become too politically correct, that people have grown far too sensitive. I hear this complaint most often in conjunction with the proliferation of language — new pronouns, new labels — surrounding gender. What those who complain about an epidemic of political correctness don’t understand is that for some of us, that language can be a lifeline. Before I gained enough language, I believed that I was transgender. I’d never felt like a boy. I had friends who had begun transitioning and this was the language that they used, and so I followed. From the ages of 15 to 21 I dressed with a femme presentation. I wore wigs, a weave and makeup, and believed that after high school I would begin officially transitioning. I didn’t feel at home in my body or this language — but it was all I had. I attended high school in West Baltimore, in an incredibly depleted and violent neighborhood, in a criminally underfunded school. I was ostracized constantly, but I managed to build a small group of friends who served as a wall around me. This wall made me feel beautiful, it made me feel loved — but it couldn’t teach me the words I needed to properly identify myself. The world I grew up in gave me no examples of fluctuation or variation. My brief experience thinking of myself as transgender was jarring and confusing. I’d flinch if a girl referred to me as she or her; women often weaponized these pronouns against me when they viewed me as a threat or wanted to make fun of me. But I’d also cringe when boys referred to me as he or him, because those words felt too sharp, as if they were being used to remind me of my place; and when they came from boys I desired, I felt completely undesirable. I didn’t assert my truth in language, because I didn’t know how. The older that I got, the less I felt represented in the transgender narrative. It simply did not fit. Some days I felt comfortable being a gay boy. Some days I felt at home as a beautiful girl. There were also times where I felt like neither, or both. When I got to college I started to experiment with androgyny. I cropped my long, bouncy, black weave into a blond and crimson Mohawk. I started to wear my clothes a bit looser so that people couldn’t identify my gender. If I’d had access to the right language, it’s possible that I might have felt empowered by this change. Instead, people on campus began referring to me as “it” or “he-she.” Eventually I folded into myself. I cut my hair off, wore drastically less makeup and took to wearing all black clothing, because I was constantly mourning the identities I might have had, that the world had slowly killed. I became increasingly depressed and even attempted to end my life. In the years since, inclusion in language has blossomed. Now we not only have glorious and complex examples of what it means to be transgender, we also have words for people like me who simply don’t feel at home as male or female, or being referred to as he or she. Now we have words like gender neutral, gender deviant, gender nonconforming and non-binary making and taking up space. Now we have pronouns like “they/them” and “zi/zer,” among many others. Sadly, it feels as though I missed the bus. I am completely at home now with my male identification. I don’t know whether this was a natural progression or if I was beaten into submission by the world. However I got here, I feel comfortable with my “he” and “him,” but I know that I lost a lot in my retreat. At times I still fear that I’m not being my most authentic self. Language is meant to be inclusive, but most important, it is meant to expand, to be updated and challenged by the times. However, language can also repress: It’s not a coincidence that the people who are most often allowed to deem the world too sensitive and politically correct are the ones who wield power and privilege over others. For black people, this means white people; for gay people, this means straight people; and for trans and gender-nonconforming persons, this means the world. As a society, it seems sometimes that we have no desire to grow. Any hint at change is met with aggression. I wish so desperately that I could have had these words as a child, that I could have claimed my own gender neutrality, my own gender deviance. I wish that language was more accessible to people who need it most. People of color, people living in poverty in places like West Baltimore, people who are being suffocated by an inability to claim who they are.