This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Health care has been the top policy priority of each of the past two Democratic presidents. It should not be so for the next Democratic president. Why not? Because those past two Democrats made substantial progress on health care, mostly through Obamacare and Bill Clinton’s expansion of children’s health insurance. And because the country has other pressing problems, like climate change, corporate consolidation, the tax code and education. (Education, by the way, also improves public health.) But even if health care shouldn’t be the first Democratic agenda item of the future, it needs to be somewhere on the agenda. It’s too important, both politically and substantively. Yesterday, Paul Starr, the eminent health scholar, published a persuasive essay, through a joint project of The American Prospect and Century Foundation, about the future of health policy. The core of his idea is Midlife Medicare: opening up the highly popular and successful program to Americans starting at age 50, rather than 65. The idea is more politically feasible than single-payer Medicare for All, which would involve forcing many people to give up their current insurance plans. As Starr notes, the forcible switching of health plans has been a repeated political loser in this country. And yet single-payer advocates, like Bernie Sanders’s many supporters, may still be willing to support Midlife Medicare as “a first step toward their larger goal,” Starr writes. In his proposal, Americans would be able to buy into Medicare at age 50 if they were not offered coverage through their jobs. Today, many people in their 50s and early 60s struggle to afford insurance that covers their needs. Expanding Medicare makes more sense than further expanding Medicaid, because the Supreme Court has turned Medicaid into a patchwork program that varies greatly by state. Focusing on Medicare also makes more sense than enlarging Obamacare’s private markets, given the repeated Republican efforts to undermine those markets (as I explain here). Medicare both works better than they do and is on more solid political ground. A larger Medicare could also have an enormous secondary benefit: The program holds down medical costs more than any other part of the health care system. The No. 1 reason medical costs are so much higher in the United States than anywhere else is the price, rather than the volume, of treatments. A famous 2003 journal article on this subject was titled, “It’s the Prices, Stupid.” More recently, Sarah Kliff explained the problem. Starr’s new article goes into much more detail on both politics and policy. Health care wonks will want to read the whole piece; others should consider reading at least parts of it. His proposal isn’t the only one worth considering for improving health coverage. But it does fall into the broad category that I think is the only one worth considering: It tries to expand public programs, not the less popular private ones, and it takes political constraints into account. Strange as it may seem, the current moment — with President Trump in the White House — is actually the right time for Democrats to formulate policy ideas. When they retake power, be it in 2021 or later, they will need to be ready to get a lot done. Luck of the draw. The Republican candidate in a tied Virginia statehouse district won a random drawing yesterday, giving Republicans control of the chamber. Larry Sabato of the University of Virginia notes that Democrats won the popular vote across all of Virginia’s statehouse districts by a “landslide” margin — 55 percent to 45 percent — yet failed to win control of the chamber. Dave Wasserman of the Cook Political Report says that outcome is a reminder that Democrats should campaign hard in every single House of Representatives district in 2018. Virginia Democrats, Wasserman writes, “probably didn’t seriously contest as many GOP seats as they should have” in 2017.