At 18, in 1968, I moved to New York from Delaware. Within a week I got a job at the Strand packing books for shipment, along with one other guy, much older, who’d been there for years and seemingly spent quite a bit of his meager salary on weekly psychoanalysis. He showed me how to tie knots, as in those days packages had to be tied up. The Strand was much smaller then, just the ground floor and a basement, where I worked. There was no air-conditioning and it was a very dusty place. Books were stacked two to three feet high in rows two deep in most of the aisles. It was great working there. Many on the staff were much older, and one, Burt, knowing I was a hayseed, would throw books at me, saying: “Here kid… read this… he’s a great writer.” I can’t recall his suggestions, but soon my writing-deprived mind became very excited. It seemed you could do anything with words. Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. There weren’t any musicians working there back then. Most of the staff was interested in literature, and some of them were writers, painters, photographers. Advertisement Fred Bass, the owner of the Strand who died this week at 89, was a very good guy. After I was late for work over 20 times, he finally just warned me he’d have to let me go because other workers were noticing and coming in late too. I asked him to reduce my paycheck, but he wouldn’t. As I recall, he liked Matisse, and any book about him he didn’t have he took home. I never saw him lose his temper, even with his dad, who was an incredibly loud, impatient, insulting porcupine of a man…though no workers took him seriously. He was a source of comedy — a book of anecdotes about him would be very funny. The Strand was a whirlpool of silent expression, of ideas happily waiting patiently…little letters on pages awaiting a glance. Tom Verlaine is a musician. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 