This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. The roughly 200,000 Salvadorans whom the Trump administration is subjecting to deportation are deeply ensconced in American society. They have lived here for at least 17 years. Together, they have about 190,000 children who were born in the United States. The immigrants “work in a wide array of jobs, from defense contractors to school cafeteria workers, commercial office cleaners and restaurant owners,” Maria Sacchetti of The Washington Post writes. The largest group of them lives in the Washington area, followed by Los Angeles, New York and Houston. Now President Trump has decided to send them back to a country many barely know, which is also one of the world’s most violent, Vox’s Dara Lind notes. The decision is un-American and shameful, as my colleague Bret Stephens said yesterday. It is also a reminder of how bad our current immigrant system is — and how badly it needs to be overhauled. One of the more frustrating aspects of this decision is that the Trump administration can defend its cruelty with legal explanations that have a ring of rationality. Those explanations may not sway liberals or immigrant advocates, but they are real weapons in the battle for public opinion. The administration is able to point out that the status quo is built on a series of fictions. Consider: Many of the Salvadoran immigrants came to this country as children or young adults, fleeing poverty and violence. Yet the immigration system has based their legal status on two destructive 2001 earthquakes in El Salvador, which occurred after most of the immigrants came to the United States. The earthquakes had little effect on many of the immigrants’ decision to remain here. Or consider: The program that has let the immigrants stay is called “temporary protected status,” even though it had become de facto permanent, pre-Trump. So long as our immigration system is built on contortions of logic like these, it will be vulnerable to Trump-style cruelty that’s then justified on the basis of common-sense law enforcement. And these justifications will, unfortunately, reduce some of the outrage that follows. The immediate priority should be protecting the roughly 200,000 people who live and work in our communities. They deserve to remain in this country. They — and the rest of us — also deserve to live in a country that has a reality-based immigration system. It should be one with a path to citizenship for longtime residents, rather than one that depends on the kindness of presidents and has a patchwork of rules that don’t mean what they say. I argued last week that health care policy should not be a top priority of the first post-Trump administration. Immigration is just one example of an issue that should be closer to the front of the line. Tweet of the day. “Before you commit to any candidate for any election at any level, you should know where they stand on the wide range of important issues,” writes Jonathan Cohn (not to be confused with the journalist of the same name).