Mrs. Sonny Bono, Jorge Mario Bergoglio and Donald J. Trump walk into a bar. Assuming you’re the bartender, by what names will you address them? Oh, wait, that’s easy. Call them “Cher,” “Your Holiness” and “Mr. President.” Because those are the names by which they are known. Easy enough, except maybe for the strangeness of being in a bar with both Pope Francis and Cher (a situation that, you have to admit, has potential). So how about this scenario then, which is poised to take place next Tuesday afternoon: There I’ll be, in the seminar room, kicking off spring term at Barnard by asking my students for their names, hometowns and personal pronouns. Yes, pronouns. Even though Barnard is a women’s college, it’s routine for there to be students in the room who don’t use “she.” In part, this is because men from Columbia (our sibling institution) routinely cross Broadway to enroll in a class at Barnard, and also because I might have a few transgender students in one of my classes. (Barnard admits students who identify as female at the time of their application to the college; students coming out as trans men while matriculating continue to be welcomed as part of the community.) Still other students use the gender nonspecific singular “they,” or the gender-neutral pronouns “ze” or “hir” or “xem.” There are lots of others as well. This would be the moment some readers — especially those, like me, who were painstakingly trained to be grammar snobs — might lament the atrociousness of the singular they, not to mention the strangeness of invented pronouns like ze and hir. There was a time when, if I heard an individual refer to himself or herself as “they,” I would have assumed ze might be crackers. But I use the singular they all the time now — as well as other nonbinary pronouns — because the absence of a gender nonspecific singular pronoun in English really does present a problem, not just for transgender folks but for all people who feel that every word out of their mouths need not necessarily reveal the mysteries of their underpants. And while conservatives — and others for whom the vexing issue of gender identity is considered a problem of no importance — might well resent any evolution in the mother tongue, it’s worth remembering that English has a long history of adapting to cultural change. That’s something we should celebrate, not lament. None of this happens swiftly, though. The honorific “Ms.,” first proposed in an issue of The Sunday Republican of Springfield, Mass., in 1901, was finally adopted by The New York Times in 1986. “Cisgender,” meanwhile (to refer to someone who is not transgender), was first used by the paper in 2010. And although the first use of “Mx.” as an honorific for people wishing not to be identified by gender dates to 1977, Merriam-Webster added it to its lexicon only last September. The Times does not use it as part of its house style. Yet. Some people find the singular they grating, and I get that: It once sounded funny to me, too. But lots of good things were unfamiliar at first, including (to name three) women’s suffrage, Rhode Island-style hot-pepper calamari and the opening chord of “A Hard Day’s Night.” Unless you’re Roy Moore (who has lamented the passage of all the constitutional amendments after the 10th), most Americans really do yearn for a more just world, even if the changes that justice demands can take a long time to join the culture, or the language. More simply, though, I’ll call my students they, or “xir,” or “e” (the pronoun coined by the mathematician Michael Spivak) simply because calling people by the names they prefer is a matter of respect. (Even calling them “preferred” pronouns does a disservice, because people aren’t choosing their identities out of fussiness or caprice; they are doing so, usually, as part of a hard-fought search for truth.) Using this language doesn’t mean that I see the world through their eyes. But it does mean I greet them with an open heart. To refer to people otherwise is to suggest to my students — or to Mr. Trump, or Señor Bergoglio, or Mx. Cherilyn Sarkisian LaPiere Bono Allman — that I somehow know who they are better than they do. I call people by the names — and yes, pronouns — they have chosen, because to do so, in the end, is to simply treat my fellow human beings with love. And that strikes me as a good approach, both inside the classroom and out. It will take awhile before this language becomes commonplace, although probably not as long as the 85 years it took “Ms.” to travel from The Springfield Republican to the pages of The Times. In the meantime, some people may need help understanding that some of the words we use to refer to one another are changing, and that these changes really do reflect a hope for a more just and compassionate world. But that’s O.K., too. The Lord helps those that helps xemselves.