A decade before Donald Trump Jr. accepted an invitation to meet with the crown prosecutor of Russia, Natalia Veselnitskaya, in order to receive secret incriminating information that would help defeat Hillary Clinton, I received a “Special Invitation” to meet with him to receive information that would enable me “to Learn the Trump Family’s Most Successful Wealth Creation Secrets.”  The invitation, on elegant off-white stationery, was from Donald Trump Jr.’s father. “Please be my personal guest to hear my real story on Trump wealth creation from my son,” it began, and it went on to explain that I would be “trained by ‘4’ self-made multimillionaire experts” who would share with me the Trump family’s “most successful wealth creating secrets and strategies.” I was curious as to why four self-made multimillionaire experts (and was it really four? Why the quotation marks?) were required to do the job. Still, as Donald Trump’s “special V.I.P. guest,” I received two tickets and would, at an all-day conference, on March 21, 2007, also receive a complimentary edition of “Trump: Think Like a Billionaire.” The “suggested fee of $149,” Donald Trump added, was “waived” for me. I had no idea what mailing list had brought to me the invitation for this “once in a lifetime conference,” but here’s what it would enable me to learn: “1. Find income producing properties the Trump way. 2. Slash capital gains tax to ‘0’ when you sell real estate, stocks, or your business. 3. Lower your current tax bill up to 31 percent. 4. Negotiate the Trump way. 5. Protect 100 percent of your personal assets from all lawsuits, liens, levies, bankruptcy, or even a divorce. 6. Get government approved investments guaranteeing 9.6 percent to 32 percent return. 7. Learn the Trump way to cash in on the new trillion dollar booming foreclosure opportunity in 2007.” The familiar elements — financial, political, social, ethical — of what the invitation refers to as “the Trump way” are here. But aside from paying no capital gains tax, exploiting people who face foreclosure on their homes, protecting my assets from lawsuits, bankruptcy and the rest, what was new? So I didn’t go. What I find myself wondering now, however, is whether an invitation might be forthcoming for an all-day conference that would train people to deal with obstruction of justice, money laundering, treason and other consequences of “the Trump way.”