This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. There is a reason that “doth protest too much” — originally attributed to Hamlet’s mother — has become a cliché. Last night, speaking to reporters on his way into the golf club he owns in Palm Beach, Fla., President Trump proclaimed himself “the least racist person you will ever interview.” That’s right: Of all the world’s billions of people, Donald Trump sees himself as the one who is least affected by another person’s race. The more than 40 years that Trump has spent as a public figure tells a different story, of course. He has shown himself to be obsessed with race for that entire time. In Friday’s newsletter, I included a handful of his racist comments and asked readers which I had missed. With your help, my colleagues and I have put together an attempt at the definitive list of his racist comments — or at least the publicly known ones. You’ll find it here. Trump’s racism stretches back to his time as a real-estate mogul and casino owner, when he said he didn’t want to have a black accountant because he believed black people were lazy. Then came his political rise over the last few years, which was built on — and there is no other accurate way to describe it — racism. He became a star on the right by promulgating the lie that the nation’s first black president was born in Kenya. Trump then launched his presidential campaign with a speech describing Mexicans as rapists. His signature proposals were building a wall to keep out Mexicans and banning all Muslims, including American citizens abroad, from entering the country. The media often falls back on euphemisms when describing Trump’s comments about race: racially loaded, racially charged, racially tinged, racially sensitive. I understand why, too. It’s better to err on the side of caution with something as explosive as the r-word. But the truth is clear: Donald Trump is a racist. I realize that some of Trump’s comments aren’t about only race. (You can favor less immigration without being a racist.) The full evidence, however, is overwhelming. Trump treats people differently based on their race. Specifically, he treats people who aren’t white worse than people who are. Many of his policies — on health care, crime, immigration and other subjects — would harm African-Americans, Latinos, Asian-Americans and other minorities, and that’s not an accident. The most damning evidence of Trump’s state of mind are his own words. You’ll find them here, with video where available. I realize that this exercise may feel like a particularly depressing way to mark Martin Luther King Jr.’s birthday. So for spiritual cleansing, I recommend taking a little time today to watch one of King’s great speeches. “I Have a Dream” takes only 17 minutes to watch in full. You can also try one of the lesser-known greats. In The Times, Charles Blow weighs in on the subject of Trump and race and George Yancy asks whether America will choose King’s dream or Trump’s nightmare.