NASHVILLE — In a flash of New Year’s optimism, you write a hopeful essay, and since you’re all in for hope, you invest in three pounds of collard greens and the thickest pork chops at the store, plus a pile of black-eyed peas, for a special supper on New Year’s Day. You don’t even care for collard greens or pork chops or black-eyed peas, but in the American South this is luck-producing food. The president of the United States is engaged in a war of insults with a nuclear-armed enemy, and this is no time to take a chance with luck. It’s probably not good parental form to urge your mostly-grown children to take at least one bite of black-eyed peas, but remarking on the food choices of the adults at your table is not your worst offense. Your real mistake is hubris. In retrospect, the crowing tweet — “When everything turns out O.K. next year, you can thank this Alabama girl, who is not messing around with luck”— was definitely a bad idea. And the Instagram video of collards simmering on the stove was nothing less than a gauntlet-toss to fate. You are about to learn the cost of hubris, for the same universe that brought the Tweeter in Chief to office clearly does not stand down in the face of a black-eyed pea. But on New Year’s Day the extent of your transgressions is not yet clear. After supper, you chalk up the churning in your stomach to the pork chops and the burning in your eyes to the New Year’s Eve party that lasted till 2 a.m. and the aching in your joints to all the dancing you did in uncomfortable shoes. The pounding headache is of course only a matter of last night’s champagne. But much later, after you’ve thrown all your covers to the floor though it is barely 55 degrees in your poorly insulated bedroom on this night of the polar vortex, a new thought comes to you in the heaving dark. You did not indulge in all that much champagne. How much champagne could there possibly have been in those wee little flutes? Hardly any. By the next morning that thought has coalesced into something of a certainty, or at least what approximates certainty for a brain in the midst of a murderous headache: This misery doesn’t feel like sleep deprivation or champagne oversupply. This particular torment is feeling a lot like influenza. Oh, but surely not: You’ve had a flu shot. You always get a flu shot in October. You’ve skipped the flu shot only one time, and that was the October you were newly pregnant and your obstetrician recommended waiting till later in the season to get it. Later in the season you didn’t need a flu shot because by later in the season you’d already had the flu — a ghastly affliction that involved a midnight visit to the emergency room. “Oh, bless you, you’re pregnant,” the nurse had said, looking at your chart. “And that poor little baby’s just a-cooking in there.” Any illness that can be confused for a hangover is definitely not an E.R.-level illness, you tell yourself. This is only a little 24-hour virus. While you were stocking up for New Year’s luck, the grocery store was crowded with coughing hordes of bleary-eyed snifflers. How surprising is it, really, that you picked up a little bug? Still in your bathrobe, you set up camp in your late mother’s power recliner, where you can be both erect and recumbent, and where it is possible to make the footrest pop out and the headrest lean back without exerting any physical effort. Definitely your head needs to rest, or you will have to hold it in your own hands. You open your laptop, log into your work email, and peck out a message with your eyes closed. A moment later you get a ding from your new colleague: “Can I call you?” When the phone rings, all that comes out of your mouth are unrelated vowels and the occasional question mark. “Hmm. It might take me a while to get this,” your new colleague says diplomatically, her words echoing in your throbbing head. You type “C.D.C. flu map” into your search engine. The image that pops up is of a country engulfed in flu. You click the “play” button on the interactive map and watch as “no flu activity” in October turns into a holiday blitz of germ warfare across the nation. There is something mesmerizing about the flu map, something almost reassuring. Watching it unfold confirms that you have not been singled out for suffering, that you alone are not the target of some giant cosmic payback for overweening New Year’s ambition. Your eyeballs are on fire, but horror leads you to keep clicking, and you learn that a moderately severe flu season kills an average of 56,000 Americans. And that this flu season, which hasn’t even peaked yet, is already classified as moderately severe. And that the flu shot this year is a poor match for the deadly flu now in circulation. The good news is that getting the flu shot does reduce the chance that flu will kill you. So maybe it is safe to go to sleep. Maybe if you sleep for a week you will wake up well. Before you shut down your laptop and give in to the obvious, you learn that the word “influenza” derives from the Latin for “under the influence of the stars.” And no matter what your Alabama grandmother might have told you, no pot of greens simmering in pork fat will force the stars to bring good luck. 