This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. “I want them to talk about racism every day,” Steve Bannon said last summer. “If the left is focused on race and identity, and we go with economic nationalism, we can crush the Democrats.” He’s not completely wrong. When white working-class voters focus on the white part of their identity, Republicans benefit. When they focus on the working-class part, Democrats benefit. (Ezra Klein reviews the evidence here.) And whether you like it or not, white working-class voters are extremely important to determining control of state governments, Congress and the White House. So are progressives making a mistake by spending so much time in recent days talking about President Trump being a racist? No — with a big caveat. It is not a mistake for substantive reasons: History shows that racism becomes even more dangerous when it’s allowed to go unchecked. And it’s not a mistake for political reasons too: There are a significant number of independents and Republicans, including minorities and suburban college graduates, who are turned off by Trump’s race-baiting. But it’s also important to distinguish between the current moment and the remainder of 2018. Calling out Trump as a racist is the right thing to do in the days immediately following comments like his vulgar denigration of Haitians and others last week. It should not become the centerpiece of the Democrats’ 2018 strategy. That centerpiece needs to be a principled populism that causes voters — white, black, Latino and Asian — to think about their economic interests. Trump certainly can be a huge part of the strategy. The president is almost always the central issue in a midterm election. The key is how Democrats talk about him. Emphasizing the ways he’s hurting the middle class and working class has almost no downside. It turns off no substantial group of voters. It can win over swing voters and motivate reliably progressive ones. Race is different. When it’s at the center of the political debate, a large group of voters can become more likely to choose white-nationalist candidates like Trump, as Bannon understood — and exploited — in 2016. You can lament that fact. I certainly do. But don’t make the mistake of denying it. Related: Briahna Joy Gray’s piece in New York magazine late last year, titled, “Racism May Have Gotten Us Into This Mess, But Identity Politics Can’t Get Us Out.”