Last year, when Education Secretary Betsy DeVos cited historically black colleges (H.B.C.U.s) as emblematic of her “school choice” philosophy, members of my family laughed so hard they cried. Of course, these schools were born of the lack of choice. Yet their achievements, as a group, have been nothing short of astonishing. My parents, my mother’s parents and my wife’s father and grandparents were products of H.B.C.U.s — and it was H.B.C.U.s that set our family on the path to the middle class. His fathers were laborers, but my father became a dentist because of the opportunity he had to attend the H.B.C.U. Howard University. My mother, a graduate of Talladega College, was a librarian; her father graduated from the now-closed H.B.C.U. Walden College and went on to become a lawyer and the business manager for Madam C. J. Walker’s company. For hundreds of thousands of other African-American families, H.B.C.U.s were the only option in higher education for generations. They are the engine that has powered black progress, from centuries of enslavement to the highest positions in business, government, education, science, technology and entertainment. The critical but often invisible role of these institutions is what compelled me to capture their history in a documentary film, “Tell Them We Are Rising: The Story of Black Colleges and Universities,” from which this Op-Doc is adapted. The story of H.B.C.U.s is the story of a community that refuses to be denied and of a powerhouse group of institutions that have shaped not only the lives of individual families but also the landscape of the country. For more than a century, H.B.C.U.s have been central to the social movements that have reshaped American society. It is no accident that major strategies, from the legal challenge to school segregation to the sit-in movement, were incubated at black colleges and universities. These schools were places where students could speak freely about issues affecting the African-American community, debate approaches, and develop the tactics, arguments and political strategies for addressing them. H.B.C.U.s have educated both foot soldiers and architects of past and continuing freedom movements — from the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. to the Rev. William Barber, from Mary McLeod Bethune to Diane Nash, from Thurgood Marshall to Senator Kamala Harris — many of whom would not have had access to higher education were it not for H.B.C.U.s. Today’s H.B.C.U. student activists continue to be at the center of the fight for equality and justice. The Trump administration’s missteps have helped to put H.B.C.U.s in the national spotlight — revealing a national lack of understanding of these schools’ history, exposing the difficult position that H.B.C.U. administrators find themselves in, and highlighting the moral leadership exhibited by H.B.C.U. students. In the current climate, the need for institutions that prioritize a quality educational and social climate for African-Americans is as important as ever. My hope is that these films reaffirm the indisputable relevance of H.B.C.U.s and invite Americans to consider how worse off our country might be without the existence of these institutions and their graduates.