More than 58,000 United States soldiers died in the Vietnam War, but in the world of letters, the death of a single American civilian came to represent the entire jungle quagmire. John Paul Vann went down in a helicopter crash on June 9, 1972. Four presidential administrations and a societal shift in recognizing Vietnam veterans later, Vann, a former lieutenant colonel and the first “civilian general” to lead American troops in combat, was memorialized in Neil Sheehan’s masterpiece, “A Bright Shining Lie.” Thirty years on, Sheehan’s book hasn’t lost any of its astonishing power. At a September screening of the Burns-Novick documentary “The Vietnam War,” John Kerry told the audience he never understood the full extent of the anger against the war until he read “A Bright Shining Lie,” which showed him that all the way up the chain of command “people were just putting in gobbledygook information, and lives were being lost based on those lies and those distortions.” What makes the book particularly compelling is that it is both a broad look at the folly of the war and an intimate portrait of a chillingly Shakespearean character. Sheehan spent five years researching Vann’s life, interviewing seemingly anyone who ever met him, and nine more writing. The years it took to complete “A Bright Shining Lie” consumed Sheehan. It was extremely hard on his wife, Susan, and their daughters; the girls were barely in elementary school when he started, and out of the house by the time he finished, with no family vacations to speak of along the way. “I set out to write a normal-length book in a few years time, but Vann turned out to be the most extraordinarily complicated man I ever met,” Mr. Sheehan, 81, said from his Washington home. “I never thought I wouldn’t finish the book, but it was extremely draining.” This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. A poor Irish farm boy from Holyoke, Mass., Mr. Sheehan first went to Vietnam in 1962 for United Press International. He soon befriended Vann, a distinguished veteran of the Korean War serving as an adviser to the South Vietnamese Army. Although he was a gung-ho warrior type and always believed the Vietnam War was winnable, Vann came to realize the attrition strategy was a failure, the constant bombing of the countryside was helping Vietcong recruitment, and the rampant corruption in the Saigon leadership, funded through American dollars, was devastating to the cause. He fought back through the news media, leaking information sometimes through Mr. Sheehan, who eventually was hired by The New York Times, some of which directly contradicted what was coming out Washington. Advertisement To Mr. Sheehan and other reporters in Vietnam, Vann’s version of what was going on rang truer than the sunny propaganda emanating from the White House. In April 1963, Vann left Vietnam, and it seemed to all the world that the Pentagon was punishing him for speaking out when he resigned from the Army that July. As the years went on, Mr. Sheehan increasingly regarded Vann as the personification of America’s long, painful war effort. But it took his death for the book idea to coalesce. “A Bright Shining Lie” opens with an incredible scene, Vann’s funeral, full of Washington power: Senator Edward Kennedy and the Pentagon Papers leaker Daniel Ellsberg were in the pews; pallbearers included the former commander of United States forces in Vietnam, William Westmoreland, and a future head of the C.I.A., William Colby. Seated up front were Vann’s widow, Mary Jane, and his four sons. (Their lone daughter had just given birth.) Mr. Sheehan found himself standing in the back of the chapel. The bird’s-eye view of the high-profile crowd gave him his opening line: “It was a funeral to which they all came.” “I was watching all these important people coming in one after another, like a class reunion,” Mr. Sheehan told me. “I talked to Susan that night and she said it sounds like this is a book.” (“Had I known how long the book was going to take, I would’ve committed hara-kiri,” Susan Sheehan said with a laugh. “I ended up writing a piece for The New York Times Magazine, ‘When Will the Book Be Done?’” ) Mr. Sheehan himself makes a smart tactical decision by letting readers get to know Vann as a soldier first. He’s a compelling figure: tough, brash, energetic, hardheaded, and with enough charisma for a dozen Audie Murphy movies. His idealism and bravery shone through after he returned to Vietnam in 1965 as a civilian pacification officer for the Agency for International Development. In 1971, Vann was made a senior adviser for the Central Highlands in charge of all military personnel, effectively a major general in the Army. The following spring, the North Vietnamese Army launched the Easter offensive, surrounding and attacking the provincial capital Kontum with three enemy divisions. Vann was instrumental in leading the ARVN’s defense of Kontum, which prevented South Vietnam from being bisected, but as protests mounted back home, the feat barely made a ripple. The day after Kontum was secured, Vann perished in the mountains. A week later, at his Washington memorial service, Vann’s family felt that he wasn’t getting the respect he deserved. “We all felt a pride in dad for standing up for his beliefs, because he was having a wonderful military career that was cut short,” says his eldest son, John Allen Vann, now 69. John Allen led the family in refusing to stand at the end of the service for several dignitaries, including Secretary of State William Rogers. However, there were limits to the Vann family rebellion. Following the burial in Arlington National Cemetery, other members of the family talked middle son Jess out of handing President Richard Nixon half of his draft card, which he’d torn up in advance of an Oval Office photo op. Advertisement “At Dad’s funeral, I had long hair, but I was never a radical. I didn’t march and always respected the military, but I think my father’s career has an empty all-for-nothing feeling to it, like the Vietnam War itself,” said Jess Vann, 67. It was, indeed, a “funeral to which they all came,” (credit Susan Sheehan for astutely changing “everyone” to “they all”), because of Vann’s stature as a military strategist and a civilian warrior. What nobody knew at the time, Mr. Sheehan included, was how much more there was to the story. John Paul Vann had secrets, including the reason he left the military. Vann was never going to be made a general not because of his rebellions against the Pentagon, but because in 1959 he’d been charged with the statutory rape of a 15-year-old babysitter for the Vann children. As Mr. Sheehan notes, Vann “turned himself into an amateur specialist on the polygraph,” passed a lie-detector test, and beat the rap, but he went to Vietnam knowing his career was already lost. The depths of Vann’s sexual compulsions are thoroughly examined in “A Bright Shining Lie,” and they were overwhelming. Even in a world of macho libertine behavior, Vann stood out, bedding women everywhere he lived, traveled and worked, often multiple times a day. He had two longstanding mistresses in Vietnam; one he forced to get an abortion, the other had a child. Women were to be conquered. He certainly never took the feelings of his wife, Mary Jane, into consideration. Although they eventually separated, Mary Jane stood by her man for years, even though he didn’t care if she suffered. After the statutory rape charges were dropped, she asked if he’d learned his lesson. He replied that next time he’d make “goddamn sure they’re old enough.” “As the oldest, I knew a lot of what went on. Neil dug up a lot more and unfortunately, it’s all true,” John Allen Vann said. “In retrospect, Neil was actually kind to my father and didn’t plumb the depths of what was there. When my father wasn’t serving overseas, ours was a household of violent abuse.” Remarkably, even with the rampant womanizing and misogyny, Mr. Sheehan is able to create empathy for John Paul Vann through his diligent reporting. He went to Vann’s home of Norfolk, Va., and found out the boy was born out of wedlock to a prostitute whose clients were upper-class men who preferred not to visit the brothel. It wasn’t out of desperation either — she was a hard-drinking partyer who kept all her earnings for herself. John Paul, his stepbrother and two stepsisters were raised by Frank Vann, a decent, passive man who was intermittently employed and took the brunt of her cruelty. Things would get worse for John Paul when he came under the wing of a young Methodist pastor, Garland Hopkins. At 14, Vann unburdened himself to Hopkins, who persuaded him to join his Boy Scout troop. Hopkins was a pedophile, and Mr. Sheehan writes there is no doubt he molested Vann. Years later, a few weeks before returning to Vietnam, Vann was staying with Hopkins. By now, the pastor had been left by his wife and child, dismissed by his church, and was facing prosecution for his continued pedophilia. Hopkins drank rat poison with strychnine, knowing Vann would find his body. Advertisement In “A Bright Shining Lie,” the pain John Paul suffered in childhood somewhat mitigates the pain he caused as an adult, but the relationship with Hopkins was more even more depraved. Dad allowed him to be around his sons unsupervised. “Hopkins is the genesis of our family’s issues because he was an evil person who molested me and one of my brothers,” John Allen says. “When I tried to tell dad about it, he beat me. You can imagine what that does to a young boy. Hopkins caused both of us shame and dad took it out on me.” A half-century later, the hurt Vann caused the family lingers. John Allen Vann, who went on to have a successful investment banking career, spent many years in therapy to break the cycle of violence. Yet the combination of the abuse at home and the absenteeism of a military father caused rifts. John Allen avoids contact with his sister and one of his brothers. Jess Vann talks to everyone now and again, and believes the family isn’t close because of lack of proximity and the demands of modern existence, but he’s also spent most of his life alone in the mountains, working as an ecologist in Colorado. The Vann family realities are murky. What is clear is that both sons separate their father from the soldier. “John Paul Vann had a horrific upbringing, but during wartime, he had focused energy and was a great strategist and tactician, which is rare in an officer. Usually the military teaches its officers strategy and its noncoms tactics,” John Allen says. “Back home, for my father, was close to being captured. He became a starved shark whose only goal was to trash and conquer blindly.” “A Bright Shining Lie” forced the Vanns to publicly reckon with their father’s failings, but at least for John Allen and Jess, there is no ill will for the author. Their mother, Mary Jane, 90, has never read it, but they both love the book and have warm memories of getting to know the Sheehans. Mr. Sheehan took a leave from The Times to write his book, but he never returned. By 1988, the family was $295,000 in debt to his publisher, Random House, and The New Yorker, for which he wrote regularly and which had lent him money (as magazines did back in those days), keeping afloat through fellowships, teaching gigs and Susan Sheehan’s freelance work. The longer the book took, the worse his anxiety, insomnia and stress became, but the passage of time gave his 861-page masterpiece the breathing room to become a hit. When it finally came out, the political climate in America surrounding the war had changed immensely. The reconciliation and reflection that started with the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in 1982, and helped “Platoon” win the Academy Award for best picture in 1986, opened up the public conversation surrounding America’s first losing war. Advertisement “A Bright Shining Lie” was published to great acclaim. It won the National Book Award, the Pulitzer, a special achievement award from the Vietnam Veterans of America, and in 1989, the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights Book Award. It sold 165,00 copies worldwide, which wiped out the debt and righted the family’s financial ship. Perhaps the most appropriate tribute was detailed in a 1988 Washington Post profile by William Prochnau. He wrote that the Sheehans’ 21-year-old daughter, Maria, a Wellesley graduate by this point, wore a T-shirt saying, “Daddy’s Book Is Done.” “A Bright Shining Lie” lives on as a lasting work of scholarship, and a staple of high school and college history and literature course syllabuses. Neil Sheehan has Parkinson’s, and his career has slowed down, but he is still writing about Vietnam and was most recently seen in “The Vietnam War.” His dapper appearance and the Irish lilt in his voice offered a fitting tribute to his writing life. “They filmed Neil in 2011 and he looks great,” says Susan Sheehan, a Pulitzer Prize winner for her 1982 book about schizophrenia, “Is There No Place on Earth for Me?” “It’s lovely that our grandsons get to see him strong and healthy, not the man who needs a walker.” Although he did not follow through with his threat to never write another book after “A Bright Shining Lie — he wrote two — Mr. Sheehan is most proud of the work for which he, and John Paul Vann, will always be remembered. “I was enormously gratified to have written the book; it felt like I’d truly accomplished something,” he said. “When the splendid reviews came out, and even more when I heard from friends in the military who liked it, I was thrilled. I hope it endures as a piece of history to be read again and again. All I can say in my later days, I am deeply satisfied.” “A Bright Shining Lie” opens with a funeral to which they all came. It ends with “John Vann was not meant to flee to a ship at sea, and he did not miss his exit. He died believing he had won his war.” So too, will Neil Sheehan. Patrick Sauer is a writer in Brooklyn. Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 