The people who commute into and around New York City are experiencing a harsh reality: After seven years of rapid employment growth, the city is facing multiple, potentially crippling transit problems. Record numbers of commuters are squeezing on to crowded trains on antiquated rail networks faltering after decades of underinvestment, traveling through tunnels seriously damaged by Hurricane Sandy flooding in 2012. Instead of working with the region to fix the problem, in late December the Trump administration backpedaled on one of the big projects planned to address it, a new set of tunnels under the Hudson River. In response, officials and transportation agencies should consider going it alone and not waiting for federal funding. Here’s the background: The tunnels leading into Penn Station were badly damaged by Hurricane Sandy and are believed to have only 10 to 15 years of useful life left. The Hudson Tunnel Project, the first phase of a larger plan called Gateway, would build two rail tunnels under the Hudson River and allow the reconstruction of the existing rail tunnels while maintaining service. It is co-sponsored by Amtrak and New Jersey Transit. In the second phase of the Gateway plan, additional platforms would be built south of Penn Station near 31st Street, expanding the station’s capacity and easing congestion. Given the long lead time needed for a project of this magnitude, the railroads fear that, with no replacement, service could be severely disrupted in an emergency, damaging the entire Northeast Corridor economy. A recent estimate for the cost of the first phase of the project is about $12.7 billion. An understanding set up during the Obama administration called for costs to be split, with the federal government paying half and the states each contributing 25 percent. However, in a letter in December, a Federal Transit Administration official, K. Jane Williams, denied that such an understanding existed, and questioned the role of the federal government in financing a “local project where nine out of 10 passengers are local transit riders.” There’s talk that this might just be a ploy to get New York and New Jersey senators to back the yet-to-be-revealed Trump infrastructure plan, and perhaps there are negotiations to be pursued. But where does this leave the region? The clock is ticking on the useful life of the tunnels, and the second phase of the Gateway plan — in which long-suffering New Jersey Transit commuters would get double the number of trains and direct service to Manhattan on more lines — recedes into the future. The city depends on those commuters to keep its economy growing. New York State gets a big slice of nonresident income tax revenue from them. And for northern New Jersey’s economy, jobs in Manhattan are, by far, the largest “industry.” New Jersey ranks third in per capita personal income among the states, and New York fourth. They are big net contributors to the federal budget. Unfortunately, the lesson of the recent past — with respect to taxes and transit both — is that the two states can’t count on their taxes making a round trip back from Washington. The states and the city have too much at stake to sit on the sidelines while the Trump administration ignores their needs. They need to evaluate how they can proceed without a federal partner. That means considering new revenue sources, as well as pushing for more efficient construction management and reordering other capital spending to emphasize transportation. How could the states generate more revenue? I would suggest a new tax on real estate pass-through entities, exactly offsetting the cuts in the recent tax legislation passed by Congress. To solve the twin problems of the existing Hudson River tunnels and Penn Station capacity, the region can’t permit its agenda to be set by Amtrak, which is focused on the needs of the entire Northeast Corridor, not the commuter services operated by New Jersey Transit. As Ms. Williams notes, nine out of 10 Hudson River rail passengers are commuters. Commuters should be the priority. Decision makers should also reconsider an earlier project called Access to the Region’s Core, that was canceled by Chris Christie when he was governor of New Jersey. There is a strong argument that it is a better solution because it provides both two new tunnels under the Hudson and a station extension under West 34th Street rather than 31st Street, giving New Jersey commuters a shorter connection to major West Side subway lines. While some changes will be necessary because of the passage of time, building the ARC project, rather than the Hudson Tunnel project, could get New Jersey Transit its needed capacity increase while putting its passengers in the right location. The federal funding environment is not hopeless. Should future elections change the political balance in Congress, the two states’ Democratic senators may have more ability to deliver reimbursement for the states’ and city’s investment. The first priority, however, should be to get a project moving in the limited time we have.