McKINNEY, Tex. — It was a winter morning in 2013 when I heard my name blasting from the prison loudspeaker. I was walking back to my dorm from chow, hamburger and fries, which is what is they served for lunch every Thursday at the federal prison in Oklahoma where I was in my 15th year of a life sentence for selling crack cocaine. But I was in no rush to find out why my name was called. The last time that happened, I learned that my brother had been murdered. Each step I took brought me closer to a feeling of terror. When I arrived at the dorm, everything became more frightening. I was locked in a room with a corrections officer who said it was for my own protection. Eventually he got orders to escort me to the Captain’s Complex, where the senior administration works. That nearly broke me. No prisoner ever, ever went to the Captain’s Complex. I felt tears threatening as we entered, but I held them back, just as I’d done when my brother was murdered. I was sure I was about to be told that one of my parents or my son had died. I inhaled deeply, and tried to focus on the feel of the carpet beneath my feet. Then the warden walked in with a piece of paper in his hand. “Is your name Jason Hernandez?” he asked me. “Yes, sir, it is.” “By executive order of the president of the United States, Barack Obama,” he announced, “you have been granted clemency and your sentence has been commuted from life without parole to 20 years flat.” As he said the words, I didn’t believe them, even though I had worked to hear them spoken. “Are you serious?” I asked. The warden then showed me the document he was holding in his hands: Mr. Obama’s signature and a gold presidential seal. “Son, you are not going to die in prison,” the warden said. And for the first time since I was incarcerated, I wept. That year, eight other people were also granted clemency — seven men and one woman, all federal inmates convicted of crack cocaine offenses. We were known as the Obama Eight. We had gone to prison under an unfair sentencing regime, including a 100-to-1 sentencing disparity between crack and powder cocaine. The Fair Sentencing Act of 2010 brought that disparity down to 18 to 1. Something extraordinary began to happen in the first year of President Obama’s second term, when he turned his attention to the nation’s abhorrent criminal justice system. A bipartisan coalition of legislators emerged, perhaps driven by Michelle Alexander’s extraordinary book, “The New Jim Crow,” which focused on the racial discrimination embedded in the drug war and law enforcement policies. The Republican senators Charles Grassley of Iowa and Mike Lee of Utah worked on sentencing overhaul with Richard Durbin, Democrat of Illinois. Even the Republican speaker of the House, John Boehner of Ohio, said that too many people were locked up for “flimsy” reasons. It was an exhilarating time. President Obama declared that “a growing body of research shows that people of color are more likely to be stopped, frisked, questioned, charged, detained.” And he highlighted discrimination in sentencing, how African-Americans received sometimes 20 percent longer sentences than similarly situated white defendants. Mr. Obama declared that our criminal justice system did not make us safer, and he set about changing it through the use of clemency. He used that power more than other president since Harry Truman. Today the federal government is returning us to failed drug-war practices, with Attorney General Jeff Sessions telling prosecutors to charge even low-level offenders with the most severe penalties possible, overturning an Obama policy. Since the federal government won’t take the lead, governors must continue the work of undoing the harm of mass incarceration. These efforts can be led by governors in Democratic states, like Jerry Brown of California and Andrew Cuomo of New York, and those in red states like Nathan Deal of Georgia and my own governor, Greg Abbott of Texas. All have spoken out on sentencing reform. Clemency alone won’t solve all the problems of the criminal justice system. But granting people relief from extreme sentences — if they are provided the support to re-enter society as I was — can help make amends for a punitive culture. We who are returning home will contribute immeasurably to our communities, by working and paying taxes, and also by sharing the lessons of our lives. It’s not easy for any of us to share our stories. People judge us, even post-release. But we speak because we have a responsibility to work to end what will surely be known one day as one of America’s worst human crises: mass incarceration. It is not easy to lift up some of the most excoriated people in the country, prisoners. But President Obama showed something few politicians today are showing: true courage and compassion. We can only hope more people in power will follow his example.