Members of Utah’s congressional caucus, not content with eviscerating two national monuments in the state, have unleashed a new assault on public lands, proposing legislation that hides an agenda of deregulation behind the shield of the National Park Service and the beloved park system it oversees. On Dec. 6, two days after President Trump radically reduced the size of the Grand Staircase Escalante and Bears Ears National Monuments by some two million acres, the largest reversion of federal land protections in the nation’s history, Representative Chris Stewart, Republican of Utah, introduced legislation to establish the Escalante Canyons National Park and Preserve. On its face, the bill might seem like something for advocates of preserving iconic Western landscapes to embrace in the face of Mr. Trump’s rollback. The new park would incorporate a small portion of the original 1.9-million-acre Grand Staircase area that the president’s proclamation fractured. The other three members of the state’s House delegation, all Republicans, signed on as co-sponsors. But a reading of the bill, H.R. 4558, reveals it as a Trojan horse, appearing as a gift to the public while eroding federal environmental protections on public lands. If it becomes law, the bill could set a precedent with enormous consequences nationally, all of them bad for the national parks and the park service, which celebrates its 102nd birthday this August. It is, in fact, a model for the piecemeal unraveling of the more than 400 national parks, monuments, battlefields, historic sites, recreation areas and other places in the park system. Start with the proposed management hierarchy. The park would be run under the flag of the park service, but control would be vested in a “management council” that would be unlike any other bureaucracy overseeing any national park today. The council would consist of two presidential appointees, one from the Interior Department and the other, an at-large representative, along with four Utah county commissioners, two each from the two counties within which the park would be located, and one Utah state representative. This would place control of a national park — owned by all Americans — in the hands of local politicians whose agenda is decidedly local. The National Parks Conservation Association, an advocacy group for the park system, contends the legislation would “undermine the meaning and value of a national park” and says that local officials in the two counties “have a well-documented distrust of federal land managers.” To underscore the interests this bill promotes, consider that the legislation would elevate hunting and the grazing of livestock to core purposes of the park. Livestock grazing, an ecologically destructive use of public lands, would be allowed “in perpetuity.” This hardly seems to accord with the Organic Act of 1916, the Park Service’s enabling legislation: “to conserve the scenery and the natural and historic objects and the wild life therein and to provide for the enjoyment of the same in such manner and by such means as will leave them unimpaired for the enjoyment of future generations.” The Stewart bill would accomplish another goal of Utah’s anti-public lands faction: By passing it Congress would codify the president’s Dec. 4 proclamation reducing the size of the two national monuments, an action that is now the subject of litigation, with opponents claiming the president violated the Antiquities Act of 1906. That law empowered presidents to set aside places of cultural and natural significance, and Democrats and Republicans alike have used it to safeguard our national heritage. In addition, the bill opens up sections of what was once the Grand Staircase Escalante National Monument to possible commercial and industrial development. This leads to another concern among local supporters of the original monument. The primary goal of President Bill Clinton’s 1996 proclamation establishing it was to protect the wild landscape, so remote that it was the last place in the continental United States to be mapped, from commercial development. The prospect of a park, instead of a monument, is not a pleasant one to contemplate for residents of the villages of Escalante and Boulder, which sit nearest the proposed site. National parks attract lots of visitors to gateway communities, and visitors need amenities — more hotels, restaurants, bars, trinket shops and guide services. Several members of the Escalante-Boulder Chamber of Commerce, which represents area business owners, have told me that a majority of their group opposes the national park. They want the original monument back. But Mr. Stewart apparently isn’t interested in the opinions of constituents who disagree with him. “You get trails, you get roads, you get restrooms. You get an ability to get in and enjoy the park you won’t get to do with a national monument,” Mr. Stewart said. “Unlike what many people think, monuments don’t get a funding mechanism attached to them and a national park does.” The big picture is that if his bill passes, the anti-federalists of Utah will have legitimized a hostile takeover of the commons. And by becoming the bosses of the National Park Service in this small part of the American West, they will have accomplished a stunning achievement in deception.