We all have our reasons for watching sports, but at the forefront of mine is watching incredible athletes do incredible things. They do things we cannot, and it is magical. I want to see them thrive. I do not want to see them struggle for air. Thursday afternoon in Melbourne at the Australian Open, the French tennis player Gaël Monfils, in the middle of a tense match against Novak Djokovic, one of the greatest players of all time, begged for help. The surface temperature on the court registered at 69 degrees Celsius, or 156 degrees Fahrenheit. “I’m sick to the stomach,” Monfils told the judges. Monfils, one of the most athletic and fit players on the tour, at the year’s first major, wasn’t just hot. He was scared. “I’m tired and dizzy,” he went on. He thought he had a small heat stroke for 40 minutes. He staggered off the court between sets, gasping. “I’m going to collapse.” The response of the chair umpire in charge of the event was not “Here is some water” or “O.K., let’s take a break” or even “Good news, Gaël: This place has a roof. Let’s close it.” It was instead a reminder that players are allowed only a 25-second break between points, so get back out there. Afterward, Djokovic, who won the match but looked as haggard and sickly as Monfils did, said: “There is a limit and that is a level of, I guess, tolerance between being fit and being, I think, in danger in terms of health. Today was right at the limit.” When you watch two world-class professionals barely able to lift their rackets in one of their sport’s signature events, you can’t help but wonder what, exactly, we’re trying to prove here. A reason we watch sports is to see the planet’s most talented, dedicated athletes perform at the highest levels, to see true physical genius in their chosen pursuits. It is not to watch them perform at a fraction of their abilities because they can hardly stand. There has long been a fetishization of athletes being able to withstand the elements, to overcome them, en route to victory — the marathoner who survives 100-degree temperatures, the football player who braves frigid weather to win the big game. But why? To appreciate true genius is to see it uninhibited by exterior circumstances, to see it in its purest natural element. Sports are entertainment, and part of that entertainment is to see athletic genius at work. Why would we want to see a wonderful athlete unable to be his or her best because it’s absurdly hot or cold outside? The beauty is in the performance, not what surrounds it. Would you appreciate, say, a Daniel Day-Lewis performance more because it was done in a storage freezer, or in the middle of a blazing desert? (Never mind that, knowing him, he’d probably still win an Oscar.) Isn’t the art itself enough? The N.F.L. has constructed a whole cottage industry out of “frozen tundra” as spectacle, all born from the infamous Ice Bowl of 1967, the N.F.L. Championship Game in which the Packers outlasted the Cowboys at Lambeau Field in conditions where the wind chill reached about minus 36 degrees Fahrenheit. But that game is compelling only as lore. In the moment, it was virtually unwatchable and barely even resembled football. During the game, the Packers quarterback Bart Starr got frostbite in his fingers; the linebacker Ray Nitschke’s frostbite was so awful, his toenails fell off. The marching band in attendance couldn’t play because the woodwinds froze. After whistling for kickoff, the referee Norm Schachter realized that his whistle was stuck to his lips; when he tried to remove it, the skin ripped from his mouth. (The refs stopped using their whistles after that and communicated by screaming for play to stop.) A fan in the stands died. This was not football. This was simply a bunch of men trying not to freeze to death. And yet the game is still talked about as a classic decades later, to the detriment not just of the men and women who play, but of the pleasure of the fans who watch them. Weather does not enhance the enjoyment of sports; it stands in the way. We watch sports to see a great quarterback throw a perfect pass to win the big game; we do not watch the ball hit a stiff wind and flutter like a wounded duck. Would anyone want to watch a basketball game where jump shots could be blown off course? What would that tell us about who was the better team? To watch the Monfils-Djokovic match was to watch two men wilting and withering away; neither looked like even close to the star tennis players we’ve seen them both be for years. Closing the roof and providing a climate-controlled environment — to play every sport in optimal conditions for athletes to thrive — wouldn’t just be more humane to the players, it would be far more enjoyable to watch. We want to see athletes do incredible things that we cannot. We do not want to see them begging for a break so that they do not collapse. Sports aren’t endurance tests. They’re entertainment. What’s best for the athlete is, helpfully, also what’s best for us.