Not far from the nation’s capital a number of years ago, the violent gang MS-13 introduced a 12-year-old runaway to sex trafficking by throwing a dirty mattress on the floor of a mechanic’s garage and requiring her to submit to sex with a line of customers. Sadly, it was not an isolated incident. As Attorney General Jeff Sessions recently noted, “Gangs seek to profit off of the victimization of others through drug trafficking, extortion, murdering rivals, robbing innocent bystanders and trafficking vulnerable juveniles for sex.” Too many cities in the United States are infested with criminal gangs. In 2015, the F.B.I. estimated that more than one million members of approximately 33,000 gangs prey upon American neighborhoods. The gangs have one thing in common: They commit violent crimes that terrorize our communities. And gangs increasingly rely on sex trafficking to support themselves. Gang members show no sympathy for victims. Indeed, MS-13 members proudly repeat their motto, “Kill, rape and control.” Many gangs plumb new depths of depravity in an effort to live up to that motto. Because the hallmark of many gangs is extreme violence, they warrant special attention from the Department of Justice. President Ronald Reagan said that “government’s first duty is to protect the people.” The Justice Department takes that duty seriously, especially with respect to victims of trafficking. President Trump has declared this National Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention Month. In his proclamation, the president mentioned the role that gangs play in human trafficking, and he called upon all of us to combat this “modern form of the oldest and most barbaric type of exploitation.” The F.B.I. leads the Justice Department’s law enforcement efforts against human trafficking, with support from trafficking prosecutors and coordinators from our program to fight child pornography, Project Safe Childhood, in each of the 94 United States attorney’s offices. Those efforts are assisted by teams of prosecutors based at the Justice Department’s headquarters and deployed throughout the country to assist in dismantling gangs and sex traffickers, including the Human Trafficking Prosecution Unit, the Child Exploitation and Obscenity Section and the Organized Crime and Gang Section. We are working to help train state, local and tribal law enforcement officers to identify trafficking cases and provide support for victims. That will help them to uncover human trafficking crimes and combat modern forms of slavery. “Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves,” Abraham Lincoln wrote in 1859. That is especially true of human traffickers, who rob victims of their freedom. The Justice Department, in turn, punishes traffickers by taking their freedom through imprisonment. Fortunately, Congress enacted a sex trafficking statute that includes mandatory minimum punishments. Under this law, a sex trafficker who uses force, fraud or coercion, or who prostitutes a victim under the age of 14, will receive a mandatory minimum term of 15 years in prison and may receive a life sentence. Under another law, the Child Exploitation Enterprise statute, gang members who meet the statutory criteria for sex trafficking are guaranteed 20 years of imprisonment and may receive a life sentence. Mandatory minimum punishments are important tools for fighting human trafficking. Many gangs plan their activities in terms of financial profit and loss. Incarceration deprives them of opportunities to make money and exploit more victims. Mandatory minimum sentences deter would-be traffickers by ensuring that punishments are strong, swift and certain. Criminals endanger law-abiding Americans, and gangs represent a particular threat. The Supreme Court justice Clarence Thomas observed years ago that “gangs fill the daily lives of many of our poorest and most vulnerable citizens with a terror.” The Department of Justice is dedicated to combating criminal gangs and their use of sex trafficking to finance their growth. We will not allow gangs to continue targeting vulnerable youth and spreading violence and despair.