Donald Trump prides himself on destruction. He smashes conceptions and breaks traditions. In doing so without suffering any significant consequences, he has made it more difficult for Americans to continue to delude ourselves with fairy tales about our collective values and to indulge in comforting fictions about the fundamental decency of our politics. We should have grappled with the worst in ourselves all along, but now it is not an option: The president has forced us to finally look in the mirror. Perhaps he has done us a favor. Before Mr. Trump’s inauguration, it was easy to believe, if you were inclined to do so, that the people who represented us generally had to be better than us. David Vitter, Eliot Spitzer and Anthony Weiner are just a few of the pre-Trump-era “family men” to throw themselves at the mercy of the public’s judgment when it was revealed that they were not. Sure, the apologies often seemed staged and insincere. And sure, it was easy to spot hypocrisy in the people we put on pedestals. “With all the power that a president has, the most important thing to bear in mind is this: You must not give power to a man unless, above everything else, he has character,” said Richard Nixon, of all people, in a 1964 campaign commercial for the civil-rights opponent Barry Goldwater, no less. “Character is the most important qualification the president of the United States can have.” However, it was reasonable to think certain types of behavior were automatic, self-enforced game-enders for elected officials. The jig is up. Mr. Trump has made false or misleading claims more than 2,000 times in the past year, by The Washington Post’s tally. And you could count his genuine apologies on one hand: Just make a circle with your thumb and fingers. The news is so full of his lies and contradictions — to say nothing about harmful policies — that claims that he paid a pornographic film actress to keep quiet about an affair have scarcely kept the nation’s attention. And he is never so shameless as when he is denying the significance of reports of his campaign’s contacts with Russia. Mr. Trump admitted during his campaign that he hadn’t felt the need to ask God for forgiveness. It’s now undeniable that we live — and to some extent, have always lived — in a political world in which shame is optional. Gone, even, is the idea that videotaped evidence of misbehavior is dispositive. People clinging to old myths about what the public would tolerate could have been forgiven for believing that if we all saw and heard a candidate essentially admitting to being a sexual predator, we would all agree that this was unacceptable. But no. He whispers that it wasn’t even him on the “Access Hollywood” tape. Suddenly, what was beyond debate is debatable. But think of all the videos of black people being killed by the police while they put their hands up, or were lying face down. Think of how these killings were deemed “controversial,” and the perpetrators judged to have acted reasonably. We should have been warned years ago: We may all see and hear the same thing, but that’s no guarantee that we agree that what happened before our eyes was real — or that it mattered. And when it comes to our regard for women and minorities who suffer as victims of abuse, there is no such thing as a single American set of values. A related myth thoroughly shattered by Mr. Trump: that an elected official in modern times must make at least a halfhearted effort to be something other than a racist. Until recently, it was conventional wisdom that politicians who were openly bigoted would be seen as villainous and would suffer punishment for their embarrassing views. But Mr. Trump’s endless series of racist comments and actions topped off by reports of his recent vulgar condemnation of immigrants from Haiti and Africa put an end to this. The 1986 nomination to the federal bench of his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, was doomed by allegations of racism. A civil rights lawyer testified at that time that Mr. Sessions called the N.A.A.C.P. un-American for “trying to force civil rights down the throats of people.” Coretta Scott King even wrote a letter to Congress warning that his dismal civil rights record would “irreparably damage the work of my husband.” Today, we’re watching that happen. We were fed — and many of us embraced — the fantasy that the passing of time would naturally lead to more evolved views on race. It is now undeniable that this isn’t the case. In policy and offhand commentary, open racism is now not only tolerated, but celebrated. It is jarring. That is, if we forget that Strom Thurmond, who set the filibuster record in opposition to the Civil Rights Act of 1957, or Jesse Helms, one of the most vile bigots ever in the United States Senate, were both serving at the turn of the millennium. None of this is new. This last year has once and for all pulled back the facade of a genteel American politics, whose proclaimed values line up with those of the candidates we support. Evangelicals have cast their lot with a hedonistic president who seems to merely give the Bible lip service at public functions. And sure, Roy Moore, accused of sexual misconduct with teenage girls, lost his bid for the Senate, but it was far from a foregone conclusion. A year or two ago, we might have said: “An accused pedophile couldn’t be a serious candidate. We’re better than that.” This year, we can’t, at least about Republicans. A portrait of Andrew Jackson, who engineered the genocide of Native Americans, hangs before Mr. Trump’s adoring eyes in the Oval Office, a reminder that, in politics, even what so many like to think of as the good old days weren’t actually that good. It was easier to believe our own pleasant fictions about the way things work in America before our president made a mockery of them. By lying to us, in a way he has made it impossible for us to lie to ourselves. That may be the only way in which he has been useful.