In his first year in office President Trump gave himself credit for numerous accomplishments that he had little or nothing to do with: the passage of the Republican tax bill; Walmart’s creating 10,000 jobs in the United States; the invention of the phrase “prime the pump”; and the fact that in his brief tenure, nobody died in a commercial aviation accident. (The last fatal crash on a domestic commercial airline in the United States was in 2009.) But one thing that Mr. Trump almost certainly managed to do, without effort or notice, is alter our perception of time. We’re all aware that our experience of time is fungible: Days fly by, conversations drag on, that weeklong vacation seems to last forever until suddenly it doesn’t. As long ago as 1890 the psychologist William James noted that our feelings of time “harmonize with different mental moods.” There now exists a large body of scientific literature demonstrating that emotions play a large part in generating these temporal flexions. For instance, when viewing faces on a computer monitor, lab subjects report that happy faces seem to last longer onscreen than nonexpressive ones, and angry faces seem to last longer still. Fear, alarm and stress are factors too. Forty-five seconds with a live spider seems to last far longer to people who are afraid of spiders. Watching three minutes of video clips of the Sept. 11 attacks feels longer than watching a three-minute clip from “The Wizard of Oz.” Now consider that Mr. Trump’s first year in office must rank as the most chaotic and tumultuous in modern presidential history. Virtually every week served up a new drama: the firing of the national security adviser Michael Flynn; the firing of the F.B.I. director James Comey; the appointment of Robert Mueller as special counsel; Mr. Trump’s announcement, via Twitter, banning transgender people from the military; his bungled phone call to the widow of a soldier killed in Niger; his support of the Senate candidacy of Roy Moore; his pardon of the former Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio; his mockery of the television host Mika Brzezinski; his failure to immediately denounce the white supremacist marchers in Charlottesville, Va.; his rants about the peaceful protests of professional football players; his taunting of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un with his bigger “nuclear button.” It has been a 12-month-long emotional roller coaster, even for Mr. Trump’s supporters. And those bursts of emotion have surely translated into warps in time. Every thought of nuclear annihilation, every glimpse of Mr. Trump’s angry visage, cracks open a door in the fourth dimension. It’s a very small door, however: Lab studies of emotion and time perception are typically limited to durations of a few seconds at most. For that reason these time warps have gone unnoticed; it takes a well-designed experiment to tease them into conscious awareness. No doubt all presidents and presidential aspirants induce a similar effect, to a degree. But Mr. Trump’s day-to-day and moment-to-moment public presence, and his effect on our perceptual clocks, is surely unmatched. Perhaps these moments, taken collectively, have been sufficient to alter our perception of the entire year, slowing it down or speeding it up. Under Mr. Trump, did 2017 fly by or did it feel interminable? The brain manages time perception differently over long intervals, like hours, days and years, than over short ones. At those longer time scales, the speed at which time seems to pass depends far less on momentary moods than it does on how engaged you are with life. A study done in geriatric homes found that the people who say some version of “Time is speeding by” tended to be more active and happier, whereas those who said time was moving slowly tended to be inactive and depressed. If Mr. Trump’s presidency has spurred you into committed political action, the year was perhaps a quick one. That also may be true if you’ve chosen to ignore Mr. Trump and news coverage related to him. But if you’ve been wringing your hands and waiting for it all to be over, the year may have felt very long indeed. The science here is pretty simple, even tautological: The main reason that time seems to slow down — at least on longer, conscious time scales — is that you’ve been thinking about it. If you’re bored at a dinner party, you’re looking at your watch and thinking about how to speed up the time between now and when you can leave. And later, when you think back on the party, mostly what you’ll remember is how interminable it was, because most of those memories involve wishing that time would speed up. Conversely, when we say, “Time flew by,” typically what we mean is, “I lost track of the time.” Time seems to fly by during that movie or that workday or that year because you are so engaged that you aren’t paying attention to the time, so when the event ends, you are surprised — “Wow, it’s 10 o’clock already?” In effect, the experience of “time flying by” is an indicator of good mental health: You’re busy, involved, engaged, doing something you enjoy or care about, whether it’s in an office or with friends or raising kids. Note, however, that although time can sometimes fly past, by definition you won’t notice until it’s over. Time never flies; it only ever has flown. Many people may be wondering whether the remaining three years of Mr. Trump’s current term of office can be made to speed up. This isn’t physically possible, of course, but it might be psychologically achievable. Remember that time flies when — and because — you aren’t paying attention to it. So attend elsewhere: Put away your calendar; stop counting down the days; fully engage the work in front of you, be it political or not. With luck you’ll be able to look back in amazement at how fast it all went by.