Even a year ago, most of us would have thought that if the president was said to have paid $130,000 in hush money to a pornographic film actress known as Stormy Daniels, that it would be front-page news for days. But now we just shrug it off: So what else is new? Many people have wondered why this clown should get to be president after all the exposure of his disqualifications, when far lesser offenders were punished with instantaneous dismissal. The answer is that the boss decides who gets fired, and this clown’s boss is the American voters, almost half of whom chose Mr. Trump. His employment contract has a term of four years, barring exceptional circumstances. And one of the shocking things about the past year is the enthusiasm by Trump haters for poking around in obscure corners of the Constitution for exceptional circumstances, like the suddenly voguish language providing that, in the absence of a sitting president, power shall pass to the president’s cat, or, there being no such cat, to his or her dog, or rabbit, or son-in-law … all the way down to the vice president. Have I got that right? During President Trump’s early months in office, the mainstream press’s coverage seemed spectacularly biased against him. Words like “lie” and “wrong” appeared in headlines about the White House. This didn’t bother me especially. After all, it was a bias I shared. It seemed to be following the British model of open bias that readers can judge and discount for themselves — a search for truth that fears not to cross an arbitrary line between facts and opinion. Nevertheless, it seemed at least worth noting that, for example, our two great national newspapers — The New York Times and The Washington Post (who did you think I meant?) — were practicing a different sort of journalism than they had in the past. But intense dislike of Mr. Trump turns out to be good for the suffering news industry. So a year later, has anything changed in the press coverage of the president — and in his hostility to the news media? On Mr. Trump’s side, not much. He still tweets. He still gets his information from Fox News. He still thinks that the president of the United States needs to brag about allegedly being a genius. Few think he’s a genius. He was essentially elected as a Hail Mary pass by voters fed up with the status quo. If anything more specific, it was as a manager, a business type, an unpredictable or even nonpolitical guy whose views are impossible to predict. Surprise! He’s easy to predict. He turns out to be governing off the right side of the menu, working down the conservative wish list. The media, meanwhile, have mellowed a bit, and have fallen back into old habits, such as objectivity, balance, fairness and that kind of stuff — not completely, but partway back to the days when the most inflammatory thing a news report could say about a politician was that he was “controversial.” The media’s retreat from outright hostility has been fueled by deeply held traditions of journalism, such as that the story has to change. You cannot keep writing day after day that “the president is a jerk” without someone else reporting that “the president is not as big a jerk as some former White House officials have previously suggested, according to White House officials who spoke on the condition that they should not be identified because Trump said he’d cut off their private parts if they were.” Eugene McCarthy once described journalists as birds on a wire. After a while, one of them will fly over to the next wire, others follow, and soon they’re all on the same wire again. For all the talk about scoops, no reporter wants to be out there alone for long. Then there is the so-called source greaser. The term “source greaser” is a vulgar variant of the more familiar “puff piece” or “beat sweetener.” Such a flattering report is intended to curry favor with the most important person on your beat (apart from yourself, of course). A good beat sweetener will scratch the source, or potential source, right where he or she itches. At first the Trump administration seemed so foreign and hostile to the media that source greasers were pretty rare. But gradually they drifted back into the paper. You wouldn’t think even the most vain and credulous White House official would fall for such a strategy. But in this case we all know who the most vain and credulous White House official actually is. So it’s no surprise.