A year after millions of people participated in the Women’s March to protest Donald Trump’s inauguration, demonstrators across the United States took to the streets on Saturday to speak out against the president and his administration’s policies. A poem by the activist, poet and writer Cleo Wade about being an active citizen prompted us to ask readers how they’ll be getting involved in politics in their communities. Below is Ms. Wade’s poem, followed by lightly edited responses from readers. I get up(I don’t always want to) I’m tired I am run down My thoughts run me down The news runs me down My country runs me down Our history runs me down But Something pulls me from the safety of my sheets Puts me in the shower Dresses me and says Show up Sometimes I show up Because Heather Heyer can’t Sometimes I show up because Anita Hill’s testimony still sends chills down my spine, because my friend who is a DREAMER is living in a constant state of fear, or because there are thousands of Puerto Rican Americans who have lost everything and are still living in darkness. Sometimes I get up Because I’m tired of wondering why there are so many people who should not have a gun but have a gun Sometimes I get up Because I know that equal pay for equal work does not exist. And when I see that 1 in 4 black people in Florida cannot vote, it is clear to me that equal voting rights do not exist either. Sometimes I get up Because the land of the free is locking millions of human beings in cages, shackling women during childbirth, and putting our children in solitary confinement. Sometimes I get up because I know that Nazis are planning to march again, because Flint still has no clean drinking water. Sometimes I get up Because I know that 40 percent of our homeless population are LGBTQ youths and there is something wrong with that. Sometimes I get up Because I don’t want to have to teach my children how to do nuclear bomb drills, or what to wear to avoid sexual harassment or how to behave to avoid a “justifiable shooting” by the police. Sometimes I get up Because I hugged Trayvon Martin’s mother last year and told her I would keep going. And sometimes I get up because I remember the time I read the Coretta Scott King line that said, “Freedom is never really won, you earn it and win it in every generation.” So I show up Some days I am only able to show up for myself when I close my eyes and say, “Breathe. You are are worthy. You can do this. And you will be okay.” And on the days when I can do more … I do more I listen more I learn more I give more of my time. I give more of my dollars. I give more of my heart. I give more spirit. I give more of my … Self Because To not show up To stay silent To do nothing Is to tell the world that I think it is fine the way it is And I do not think the world is fine the way it is — Cleo Wade I began volunteering at my local library, teaching classes for green card holders who are preparing for the Citizenship test. — Catherine McCall I’m recruiting voters and taking them to be registered and if necessary I’ll drive them to the polls. I’ve already got 5 people. — Jan Aulsebrook-Furman I have joined my town’s Democratic Committee and as part of that, made GOTV calls for Alabama’s NAACP prior to the special senatorial election in December. — Janet Young Last night I trudged through icy slush to a local union hall to vote for officers in my community’s Democratic Committee. Prior to November 2016 I would not even have been aware of events like this, much less participated. But I have canvassed for local candidates and will continue to volunteer to support local candidates for City Council, the VA House of Delegates, and other down-year races. Gone are the days when I felt I’d done “enough” by, you know, showing up to vote in presidential, gubernatorial or senatorial elections. — Glenn Winters I’m involved with the League of Women Voters. It seems like the best group to become an activist with. Nonpartisan and yet progressive. — Katharine Biele I spend a lot of time on Breitbart conversing with Trump supporters (I’m anti-Trump). — Matt Christopher Spent the day in the Kansas Statehouse with Moms Demand Action, lobbying for sanity regarding guns in this state — and will be back. We’ve also contributed to a number of local campaigns with our time and money, are staying totally informed about local candidates and issues, and will increase our involvement as the fall 2018 election approaches. — Margaret Kramar While I try to make calls to my representative and senators, they are all Democrats, so I mostly focus on the state level. In Illinois we have witness slips where citizens can weigh in on bills that are in committee, so I try to disseminate witness slips that I think will be of interest to people. Even if they don’t take the same stance that I do, at least they are getting involved in state level democracy. — David Schwartz I plan to donate to and volunteer for candidates in swing districts in my state, and participate in my local Dems chapter as a PCO. — Christina McHugh I co-founded an activist group dedicated to flipping our Congressional seat, NJ7 Forward. I work with other grass roots groups on training and Get Out The Vote efforts. I canvassed for the first time in 2017 and became involved in local politics. I also call my Congressman and Senators regularly. Posting on FB isn’t enough! — Margaret Shore Illis As a pastor, I am grateful to my church board which has encouraged me to preach more about justice. For example, the Trump administration’s refusal to help refugees is morally abhorrent and runs completely against the teachings and moral example of Jesus Christ. I think if more preachers had the backing I have they could preach with more freedom and honesty against injustice. Not all American Christians or churches support the president. I will continue to speak out. — John Van Nuys I worked to get petitions signed to put an anti-gerrymandering proposal on the ballot in Michigan in 2018. — Lucetta Franco