Has America become a “Trumpocracy,” and is what we’re watching a tragedy or a farce? Ross Douthat, a Times Op-Ed columnist, and David Frum, a senior editor at The Atlantic and the author of “Trumpocracy: The Corruption of the American Republic,” debated these questions in an online discussion. ROSS DOUTHAT: David, thank you so much for joining me. Where this presidency’s first year is concerned, I think we represent two poles of conservative skepticism: I’ve been most worried about Donald Trump’s incapacity, the chance that we’ll stagger headless into some geopolitical disaster; in your book, you seem most worried about the president’s dictatorial tendencies, and you think that authoritarian danger is alive and well. What would you say to convince me that I’m underestimating the danger of Trump as cunning would-be despot, as opposed to just Trump as “chaos president”? DAVID FRUM: First, those differences may be less than you suppose. I’ve stressed over and over my belief that Trump is a kleptocrat first. He hates criticism and contradiction, yes, but he mostly seeks to plunder. In order to get away with the plunder — and also with his improper connections to Russia — Trump must in self-preservation turn off the “burglar alarms” of the American state. He has attacked the F.B.I. and other means of upholding public integrity. Very relevantly for your concerns, he has degraded the National Security Council and other foreign-policy decision-making arms. They get in his way on Russia. Which leaves us careening toward war in the Korean Peninsula blind and careless. DOUTHAT: But the reason for our aggressive Korean policy seems to be the policy views of H. R. McMaster, who may be deeply wrong about the issue but is nobody’s idea of a hack, crony or Trumpian toady; he’s the sort of figure who could be making policy in any G.O.P. administration. The absence of a serious, engaged and competent president may make the Korean situation more dangerous than it should be (plus all those warmongering tweets, yes), but it’s not clear to me that a Trumpian war on expertise is the driving force behind the brinkmanship. And meanwhile, on Russia policy, where is the pro quo that Trump is supposedly delivering to his Kremlin allies? It seems to me that our foreign-policy decision-making arms have mostly either left the status quo alone or, by selling arms to Ukraine, escalated from the Obama era positioning. FRUM: Here’s what the Russians have achieved. 1) They blocked from office a capable and effective foreign-policy president who understood them, their aims and how to build effective coalitions against them. 2) They gained a president who for reasons of vanity or worse has left the country vulnerable and exposed to further attack. 3) They gained a president who is smashing apart America’s alliance structures. What intelligent South Korean can look for protection to the United States when its president regularly tweets that it is to China, not the United States, that South Korea should look for protection — and who is contemplating sacrificing hundreds of thousands of Korean lives to protect mainland U.S.A.? 4) The Russians gained a United States that operates in ways they are comfortable with — open to corruption and oligarchy — and they have scored points for the argument that democracy is a joke and a fraud. 5) They have helped install a racial provocateur who identifies every stress point in American political culture and inflames it to the point that the United States polarizes and paralyzes … I could go on. DOUTHAT: That the Russians have gained a president who may be seriously endangering America’s broad position in the world I don’t dispute. My argument is just that, so far, your intelligent South Korean could look at the actual moves made by the American state and persuade themselves — as many world leaders have seemingly persuaded themselves — that they should act as though McMaster and James Mattis and a few others are really running foreign policy, and the official president’s tweets are so much sound and fury. Likewise an intelligent Pole or Hungarian or Ukrainian, trying to make choices in the shadow of Putin’s ambitions: You just don’t see the kind of dramatic steps, with NATO or anything else, that would suggest that Trump is substantially changing American policy. Which is why despite our agreement about Trump’s character and competence, my general level of alarm has lowered somewhat since his inauguration, and is currently lower than your own. FRUM: The United States is a big bureaucratic state. Change more often comes to the United States by changing the content of the American state than by changing its forms. For example, the Constitution contemplates a cabinet system of government, with the principal officers confirmed by the Senate. Yet the chief of staff and the national security adviser, two positions never contemplated by the Constitution, matter more than any cabinet officer. On constitutional democracy’s periodic upswings, we develop expectations about how the president should behave that exceed the law — e.g., no Franklin Roosevelt Jr.’s doing shady deals from the White House — and we go into reverse on the downswing. Trump has not changed any law or policy about presidential financial integrity. He’s just ignored customs (publish his tax returns), rendered other laws meaningless (financial disclosures that conceal things the public most needs to know, e.g., the upstream debts of the Trump Organization) and simply defied other laws by official lying (the endless misstatements by Trump’s son-in-law and the nation’s de facto chief foreign affairs officer). DOUTHAT: I agree; this is a definite downswing, a return of certain kinds of presidential sordidness and their exacerbation on certain fronts. But part of what’s been striking about the Trump era to me is how much its events have confirmed trends that are bigger than Trump, that he benefited from during his ascent and that loom larger to me as symptoms of continuing crisis than most of the specific policy moves he’s attempted. In particular, the paralysis of Congress, it’s abdication of power to the presidency and its inability to function as a legislative body — plus the ideological sclerosis of the Republican Party, its collapse into an entertainment-wing-driven grift — these have been defining features of life under President Trump, as they were under President Obama before him. Were Trump an effective authoritarian, he could use these features of our politics to claim new powers and execute unilaterally on grand ambitions — as both of the last two presidents, on matters of war and peace and domestic policy, attempted and sometimes succeeded in doing. But his ineffectiveness so far means that the pre-existing crisis in how the presidency and the legislative branch relate to each other, and how the G.O.P. all functions, is still percolating, but not necessarily becoming dramatically more dire. FRUM: Your use of the word “unilaterally” casts a useful clarifying light on what may be the foundation of our disagreement. Let me be very clear what I do not mean by “Trumpocracy,” at least not yet: Caesarism. The authoritarian-nationalist system Trump is building is not being built against Congress, but with Congress — and even more, with Republican Parties at the state level. The big reveal to Republicans in the second Obama term, continuing now into the first Trump term, is that you and Reihan Salam and Ramesh Ponnuru and Henry Olsen and other “reformicons” were right on the politics of Paul Ryan-style conservatism: Such politics simply could not prevail in a free and fair democratic contest. You and they (and me, too) assumed, or at least hoped, that Paul Ryan’s party would respond to this better-late-than-never recognition of the obvious by moderating their policies. More health care, less immigration, more infrastructure, more family-friendly tax policy, etc. DOUTHAT: Right, and this is where I differ from many NeverTrumpers: On policy grounds, there is a sense in which I often wish that Trump were more effective in pushing the populist-nationalist brew from his campaign. Instead, those ideas (especially their non-xenophobic, economic manifestations) seem like something he never much cared about and will happily abandon if everyone else in the room prefers to repeal Obamacare instead. FRUM: Instead, they concluded: “What if we shaped the electorate to be a little more friendly to us? Might our formerly unpopular ideas prevail then?” The G.O.P. is complicit with Trump because he delivered a success that finer leaders and better methods could not deliver. Trumpocracy is the fusion of Trump’s authoritarian instincts with the G.O.P.’s plutocratic instincts in the context of a country trending in very different directions. DOUTHAT: I think that’s a plausible characterization. But again, those instincts have not, so far, produced massive voter disenfranchisement — just a voter fraud commission that went nowhere because it was run by incompetents. More broadly, the G.O.P. is relying on gerrymandering and Electoral College quirks and the concentration of liberal voters around big cities — but that kind of thing often happens in American politics, and so far it’s not producing big policy swings (Paul Ryan is not going to privatize Medicare in the next two years), just stagnation and the status quo, with the clear opportunity for the Democrats to take control of all three branches of government if they run smart campaigns in the next two years. The underlying situation isn’t good, for the country or for a healthy conservatism — but neither is there some authoritarian breakthrough happening that’s likely to save the G.O.P. from its unpopularity, let alone enable it to implement some full-on anti-welfare state agenda. FRUM: If your concern is for a seizure of power like the 18th Brumaire, then yes, you can relax. That’s not going to happen. It hasn’t happened in Hungary, it hasn’t happened in Poland, it hasn’t happened in South Africa, it won’t happen here. It’s out of style, counterproductive. “Massive” voter disenfranchisement of the kind seen in the U.S. South after 1876 also won’t happen. It’s too visible and too provocative. Modern authoritarianism is more economical. It will — it has — produced just enough disenfranchisement to get the job done without so much as to rev up so many people as to threaten the whole project. DOUTHAT: Perhaps, but it seems its own sort of complacency to assume that we couldn’t ever have a an 18th Brumaire-style coup … and also like an overestimation of the Trumpian varietal if its “economical” voter suppression can’t even manage to hold a safe-as-houses Senate seat in Alabama. FRUM: But look at what has already happened. Donald Trump fired an F.B.I. director for blatantly improper, self-serving reasons — and his entire party (and its supporting talkers on TV and radio and the op-ed pages) instantly coalesced on a brand-new theory that the president has an absolute discretionary right to fire the F.B.I. director at any time for any reason, including to protect himself from investigation. Nobody ever believed that before — indeed, the last time a president fired an F.B.I. director, Bill Clinton versus William Sessions, the president engaged in elaborate fact-finding and broad consultations with Congress and extended the director the opportunity to testify on his own behalf. And all this with Congress controlled by the president’s own party! Today, it’s the newly declared position of one of the parties (and who knows, maybe soon both parties) that the chief law enforcement officer of the United States is subject to presidential control and direction and removal for any reason, including self-dealing reasons. This is new. And it is dangerous. DOUTHAT: I’m not sure we’re quite there: Your “brand new theory” is the declared position of Sean Hannity and other Fox personalities and a clutch of noisy House Republicans, but so long as the Mueller investigation is proceeding apace, I think it’s more a norm in the balance, if you will. But I won’t argue that Trump isn’t a norm violator. I’m just not sure, in the absence of sweeping policy consequences, that his sleazy, sordid norm busting is categorically worse than, say, the way that both the Bush and the Obama White House changed norms about going after reporters and leakers, or the norm shifting after 9/11 that led to torture briefly being practiced by the C.I.A., or the norm shifting that gave us a disastrous Libya intervention that Congress never even voted on ever … let alone President Obama’s various norm-stretching power grabs on immigration, climate-change regulations and more. FRUM: As you know, I open my book by discussing the “pre-existing conditions” from which Trump emerged. My hypothesis is that the end of the Cold War opened the way to more uncertainty about America’s responsibilities abroad and more ruthless partisan competition at home. But it’s not a very reassuring answer to the complaint “We seem to have fallen to new low” to point out that we have been tumbling downstairs for a while. DOUTHAT: That’s fair, but if the danger was taking a header off the landing, and instead we’ve just rolled down a step or two, I’m not going to apologize for feeling a provisional relief. But to play us out here, let me test a thought I’ve had sometimes in the last year: We’ve been talking about the trend toward “Caesarism,” something I criticized harshly under Obama and feared Trump would exacerbate. But sometimes during the last year I’ve wondered if the “pre-existing conditions” are now bad enough that there simply isn’t going to be, say, a recovery of congressional effectiveness or a return to a healthy left-right dynamic without a kind of Caesarist interlude, of the kind America arguably had under Lincoln and under F.D.R., in which a dangerously strong president reshapes his party and the political process in ways that make it possible to pursue the common good again. In other words, Trump is the wrong kind of Caesar, but some version of what he represents, some authoritarianism-skirting leader, might in fact be a necessary figure for our polarized and increasingly dysfunctional politics. What do you think of that provocation? FRUM: Lincoln and F.D.R. expanded the presidency in ways that Donald Trump has not yet attempted, and is probably too idle, distracted and inept to execute. Lincoln and F.D.R. were also good and decent men — Lincoln, in fact, something high above ordinary ideas of goodness and decency — facing authentic emergencies and acting for the public good in ways not only ratified by history but also by the leading moral authorities of their own time. What you say above may describe the impending Oprah presidency, but not Trump’s. DOUTHAT: Well, then let’s discuss again under the spiritual-but-not-religious theocracy of Her Most Holy Oprahness. Thank you, David. It was a pleasure. FRUM: Thank you — and even more urgently let me finish with a wish that events prove you right and me wrong.