This month, Massachusetts became the first state to ban fentanyl and carfentanil from being brought into courthouses as exhibits, out of concern that these substances are simply too dangerous to be in public places. The policy is based in part on the idea that even minuscule amounts of skin exposure to these drugs can be life-threatening. This is patently false — and we fear that it will worsen what is already a public health crisis. This false belief about the danger of these drugs seems to stem from several unsubstantiated — though widely disseminated — media reports over the past year. In one such story, a drug patrolman became ill after brushing some powder off his uniform that he picked up while searching a suspect’s car. First reported by local news in Ohio, the story was picked up by “CBS This Morning,” The Washington Post and CNN, to name a few. In another case, also in Ohio, three nurses went from cleaning a patient’s room to waking up in hospital beds of their own. After local media reported it, and The Associated Press and US News & World Report took it national. In both cases, the victims were given naloxone, the highly effective opioid reversal agent, and ultimately recovered. But the damage was done. Both stories are examples of the post hoc ergo propter hoc fallacy: Just because somebody received naloxone and later recovered is not by itself proof that the medication had any more effect than that other tried-and-true antidote for what are likely to have been severe panic attacks: time. Indeed, given the tall-tales circulating in the press and in law enforcement circles about the supposed hazard of passive fentanyl exposure, one can hardly blame them for panicking. This paranoia is reflected in the new Massachusetts courtroom policy, which bolsters the delusion that opioids can kill via unintended casual contact. As emergency physicians, we are concerned not just about this massive public misperception but also about its consequences to public health if emergency medical workers or other care providers are scared out of performing their normal lifesaving duties. We’ve been here before, and with similar destructive effect. In 1987, four years after it was determined that H.I.V. could be spread only through sexual or blood-to-blood exposure, there were still doctors and dentists who refused to see H.I.V./AIDS patients out of lingering and irrational fears about its contagion. Even among those unlucky few who experienced needlestick injuries when treating H.I.V.-positive patients, fewer than 1 out of 300 contracted the virus (the number is even lower now). Unlike in epidemics of the past, we have a commanding medical understanding of the nature of today’s culprit. In contrast to tuberculosis, cancer and AIDS — in which, as Susan Sontag described in “Illness as Metaphor” (1978) and “AIDS and Its Metaphors” (1989), the medical mystery of these entities contributed to public fears about contracting them — there should be no need to demythologize the opioid epidemic since we created these powerful synthetic opioids ourselves. And yet, paradoxically, the opioid crisis has perhaps unveiled a diametrical societal inclination: to actively mythologize a well-understood entity, metamorphosing it into a frightful and enigmatic one, bestowing contagion where none exists. Fentanyl and carfentanil are synthetic opioids. They are many times stronger than morphine and have a well-established safety record in medical and veterinary use. When abused they can kill. These substances are dangerous in high quantities when injected or ingested by mouth or vigorous sniffing. But clinical toxicity (let alone a little high) from fleetingly touching even the purest powder forms of these compounds is simply impossible. After all, as our colleague Andrew Stolbach of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine has noted, if users could get their fix by touching fentanyl, they wouldn’t bother injecting it. While bogeymanism may effectively serve to discourage some people from abusing these substances in the first place, it would be horrible if it were to dissuade emergency medical workers, medical professionals and civilians from performing noble and lifesaving acts, such as delivering lifesaving doses of naloxone. The tragedy is that it’s already occurring. In some parts of the country, emergency medical workers aren’t being permitted to carry naloxone. Recent fentanyl overdose scenes have crossed an invisible line into absurdity, in some instances resembling chemical war zones, Hazmat suits and all, where gloves and maybe a mouth cover would have sufficed. Policies like the one enacted by courthouses here will only reinforce what appears to be an inclination by at least some local authorities toward alarmist pageantry. There are some encouraging signs that reason may yet prevail. Last summer, the two top expert bodies in the nation — the American College of Medical Toxicology and the American Academy of Clinical Toxicology — published a position statement debunking the tales that were reported in the press, noting in particular that none of the reported cases have appeared to resemble the constellation of symptoms we see and treat daily in cases of known opioid overdose. We are also heartened to see that local expert groups and even the White House have weighed in on the side of science in attempts to reassure emergency medical workers that they may continue to provide safe and desperately needed care. But such rational approaches will be undermined if we do not stand against an unfounded hysteria about synthetic opioids that behave within the predictable confines of their chemical nature. When used properly, fentanyl and carfentanil are therapeutic. When they are used improperly, they can ruin lives and kill. And when touched by human hands in powder or liquid form, nothing happens. If law enforcement, medical professionals and the public begin to harbor irrational beliefs about these drugs countless more of our fellow citizens who need emergency medical attention will die unnecessarily. A little powder on our hands is nothing compared with a whole lot of blood.