The Trump administration recently announced a historic change in Medicaid policy: It will allow states to require people to work in order to receive coverage. The idea is that more people will be nudged into paid work, helping them “rise out of poverty and attain independence,” as a letter sent to state Medicaid directors this month says. But what work requirements really do is demonstrate our obsession with work ethic over everything else — including people’s well-being. This is particularly obvious when it comes to demanding work for health care, yet it’s true as well for other programs on which Republicans want to impose work requirements. These requirements elevate work of any kind — and what we know from the 1996 welfare reform is that it’s destined to be low-paid, low-quality work — over any other consideration. Allowing states to impose work requirements will threaten the health insurance of at least 6.3 million people. But many of the people who receive Medicaid and don’t work all the time have good reason not to. Those who are working just part time frequently say it’s because they can’t find full-time work or have conflicts like school or family needs. Even among those who aren’t enrolled in the program on the basis of an official disability, more than a third who aren’t working still say it’s because they have an illness or disability. Among the rest, 30 percent say it’s because they’re caring for their household or family members, 15 percent are in school, 6 percent are trying to find work, and 9 percent are retired. In the nine states that have already submitted requests to impose work requirements, illness and disability is the most common reason recipients who aren’t on disability or elderly aren’t working. In Kentucky, the first state to move forward, just over half say that’s why they don’t have a job. The administration has said that those whose disabilities qualify them for Medicaid won’t have to meet the work requirements. But that chunk of people who aren’t working because of a disability aren’t enrolled that way; getting an exemption from work requirements for such conditions can be an administrative mess that makes it all but impossible. What these requests, and the Trump administration’s decision to grant them, indicate is that none of these things matter. The only thing that matters is whether someone is working. Their job is their value, and we will reward only the valuable with basic necessities like health insurance. (Never mind the fact that the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion didn’t spur people  to cut back on how much or for how long they worked, nor that enrollees say that having health insurance makes it easier to keep working or look for a job.) That ideology isn’t just extended to Medicaid. The president and congressional Republicans have indicated with growing frequency that their next big project could very well be “welfare reform.” What they mean by “welfare” is a growing list of anti-poverty programs, and what they mean by “reform” is, by and large, imposing work requirements. “Welfare reform — does anyone want welfare reform?” President Trump asked supporters in Missouri in November. “I know people that work three jobs and they live next to somebody who doesn’t work at all. And the person who’s not working at all and has no intention of working at all is making more money and doing better than” the person who is working. Republicans have already targeted food stamps. Senator Mike Lee and Representative Jim Jordan introduced a bill last year that would add stricter work requirements to the program, while the Trump administration is planning to give states more leeway in imposing them. “If you are on food stamps and you are able-bodied, we need you to go to work,” the White House budget director Mick Mulvaney said early last year. “There’s a necessity to work to help the country succeed.” Housing assistance is also, apparently, included in the welfare umbrella. Housing Secretary Ben Carson has said that his agency will be “significantly involved” in any welfare overhaul. He believes the “critical work” of the agency is to “help work-eligible households achieve self-sufficiency,” and that as things stand assistance makes people dependent and public housing is too cushy. We’ve already tried out work requirements, and they just don’t work. In the 1990s, as part of that original effort to change cash assistance, a strict work requirement was included under the idea that it would get people “off welfare and into work,” in President Bill Clinton’s words. But many people who were shoved off cash assistance didn’t land in paid employment. In Maryland, over a third of people had no job at all within five years of losing enrollment. In some other places, within five years they were less likely to be employed than those who weren’t subjected to work requirements. Those who did secure work were frequently stuck in low-wage jobs that didn’t even last the full year, and most still lived in poverty. In Maryland, more than half of those pushed off the program had unstable, low or declining earnings. This is the policy that the House speaker, Paul Ryan, has lauded as “revolutionary.” What it’s shown is that we’re more concerned that people prove their worth through work no matter the quality of the work itself, nor whether it actually improves their lives. Those who fall through the cracks are simply forgotten. Republicans don’t want to appear cruel. In justifying their onslaught, Representative Marsha Blackburn of Tennessee assured viewers of Fox News, “We’re not talking about taking away benefits from those who deserve those benefits.” But that is perhaps what’s most galling: the notion that those who can’t or won’t work for a multitude of reasons don’t deserve anything. Medicaid is an especially bizarre place to impose work requirements, and not just because health care makes work easier. Even if someone who can do it won’t work, does that mean he deserves poor health? Do we feel it’s right to let him face a greater risk of dying based on his work ethic? The same logic applies to other programs too. “Making cash assistance or food stamps contingent on work participation is one issue — denying medical care to sick, poor people is another matter,” Robert Rector, a senior research fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation, recently said. Is it? Is denying food to a poor, starving person all that different? Is denying someone a roof over his head in the dead of winter any less damaging? Food stamps ensure that the residents of one of the wealthiest countries on the planet don’t go hungry; housing assistance helps them shelter themselves and their children. They are programs of last resort. The people who desperately need them shouldn’t be divided into those who are valuable enough to get help and those who aren’t worthy based solely on whether they have a job.