Frank Bruni, a Times Op-Ed columnist, hosted an online conversation with Deval Patrick, the former Massachusetts governor and the managing director of Bain Capital Double Impact, and Joe Trippi, a Democratic strategist most recently with the Doug Jones Senate campaign in Alabama, about the 2018 midterm elections and the challenges and opportunities they present for Democrats. FRANK BRUNI: Many Democratic activists are seething about their senators’ votes to reopen the federal government without any guarantee of a deal on Dreamers. Strategists and pundits of all stripes believe that the Democrats handled this badly and are doing an ace job of jeopardizing their likely midterm election gains and their chances of retaking at least one chamber of Congress. How concerned or worried are you about what just happened on Capitol Hill? DEVAL PATRICK: Frustrated but not that concerned. I hate government shutdowns. I’m not that focused on tactics anyway, so much as I am on the convictions at stake. To me, there are two. First, a great country doesn’t intentionally hurt innocent people. That’s what we’re doing by throwing out the Dreamers. And everybody knows it. Second, the Congress needs to govern. We need a real budget, preferably a multiyear one so people can plan and make progress, not another temporary stopgap measure. JOE TRIPPI: No one wants a government shutdown — but no one wants to continue kicking the can down the road while Dreamers are living with uncertainty and being deported, and the military and domestic programs have no ability to plan. PATRICK: Democrats have given Republicans yet another chance. What happens next will tell us all whether we can depend on Republican congressional leadership and the president not only to keep their word but also to govern. TRIPPI: The reality is that much of the country has come to see Washington as a hostile, hyperpartisan, divisive place filled with bitterness and chaos — and incapable of finding common ground on things like DACA that a vast majority of Americans agree on. A majority see the president driving this hostility, playing to it and creating much of the chaos — that is why his approval ratings are so low, given the strength of the economy. PATRICK: Those two convictions — fairness for the Dreamers and responsible governing — are more important than the midterms. Do right by those, and the midterms will take care of themselves. TRIPPI: Midterms are almost always reflective of how Americans view their president. We are still a long way off from November 2018, but given the president’s historically low approval ratings, the energy among Democrats and the real exhaustion we saw in Alabama in elements of the G.O.P. — they are tired of the chaos and the feeling they have of constantly being on edge, all created by Trump — Democrats with the right message will win a larger majority than people are expecting. That includes less stridency and more common-sense policies and solutions. The more Democrats can hold the energy of the party base and appeal to Republican women, younger Republicans and college-educated Republicans in more districts, Democrats will be competitive and win. I don’t think the shutdown will have much to do with that — Trump will drive both the energy among the Democratic base and the hunger among many Republicans to end the chaos. Strident Democrats could drive these Republicans home and squander seats that would be otherwise winnable. BRUNI: I detect a presumption — warranted — in your answers that Democrats are poised for big pickups in November 2018. That’s certainly what history suggests. But we’ve seen a lot of political expectations and conventions upended over the last two years. How do Democrats screw this up? PATRICK: By acting as if there is anything “typical” about the times. These are fearful and divisive times. President Trump is masterful at stoking that fear and division. Still, we need to focus less on what’s wrong with Trump and the Republicans and more on what’s right with us, and especially on how we as Democrats can lead us all to higher ground without fear and division. TRIPPI: Our enthusiasm can get in our own way. We have so many candidates running: In places like California, there are “jungle” primaries that allow top-two candidates regardless of party to face each other in the general election. It’s possible for Democrats to split the vote and allow two Republicans to slip into the general election. BRUNI: If I hear you correctly, you’re saying Democrats need to be relentlessly practical. I haven’t observed that to be the party’s strong point. PATRICK: I think the other part of winning is being willing to compete everywhere, by showing up and working at the grass roots, and by listening for good ideas from wherever they come. TRIPPI: To win in a lot of really red districts — and that is possible this year, as we showed in Alabama — Democrats need to understand that this is a large and diverse country and we have to nominate people appropriate to the district. The Tea Party lost a lot of Senate seats for the G.O.P. by not getting this. I am not talking about winning the first ring of swing districts. The number we need to win a majority is a lot lower than what the G.O.P. should lose, given the history of past midterm elections in the first term of a president. I am talking about the next ring or two of potentially winnable races for Democrats. The Republicans we need to switch to Democrats in many of these districts are looking for common sense — not strident partisanship. To many in the base, this may not be what they want, but long term, these candidates can not only win today but also be the bridge to move many Republicans to reject today’s G.O.P. and vote for Democrats. BRUNI: Is the party going so far to the left that red-state Democratic senators like Claire McCaskill are at risk? She recently complained about exactly that — that no matter how appropriate she or some peers may be for their states, they could be up against a party image, created by 2020 presidential candidates, that hurts them. PATRICK: On “left” versus “right,” “liberal” versus “conservative” — the labels are stale. The real dynamic in our politics today is insider versus outsider. That’s what needs to be fixed. I’m a Democrat because the Democratic Party is closely aligned with American values of freedom, opportunity and fair play. We believe in an open, market-based economy bound by those values, an education system that supports and sustains those values, a robust foreign policy that promotes those values. Consistency with those values is the only litmus test that ought to matter to us. BRUNI: But, Governor Patrick, what you say about the Democratic Party leaves plenty of room for different interpretations and extensive quarreling. Bernie Sanders’s vision of an “open, market-based economy” and a “robust foreign policy” is a lot different from that of Democrats closer to the center. Those sorts of divisions may well be prominent in Democratic primaries this year. How does the party best navigate them? PATRICK: What matters most is that we agree on and fight for the ends, not so much the means. For example, we want every man, woman and child to have access to quality, affordable health care. There’s more than one way to skin that cat, and we should be open to debating all those ways. But let’s be careful that while the other party tries to divide us over the differences in means, they are preventing progress toward our ends. BRUNI: Joe Trippi, you mentioned something that has greatly concerned me, too: the dangers of stridency. What qualifies as too strident when it comes to Democrats and the right messaging and positioning and candidates for the midterms? What are a few things you’ve observed recently — tactics, statements — that made you wince and think: “That’s too strident. That’s not wise.” TRIPPI: A partisan from either party who is in a marginal district and lashes out at the other side is likely to hurt themselves with these voters. How is this candidate not going to add to the chaos and hostility in Washington? How is this candidate going to get anything done for me? Democratic activists want someone who is going to attack and fight the Republicans at every turn. That will work great in a Democratic district — it may work to attract support and money and win praise from the base. But in marginal districts, particularly places that have voted Republican for years (like Alabama, for instance), that will squander an otherwise winnable district or state. We can’t be a one-size-fits-all party. I should point out that Doug Jones did not have a competitive primary, whereas the G.O.P. had exactly the ideological fight we need to avoid in marginal districts. It’s the candidates we nominate in the primaries of 2018 that will determine how successful we are. BRUNI: Governor Patrick, but aren’t the “means” really everything? Single payer and Medicare for All are a world apart from Obamacare, and when it comes to how things play out in the political arena, Republican strategists tell me they’re champing at the bit to have their candidates campaign against any plan that they can brand “socialized medicine.” PATRICK: I get that, but it doesn’t trouble me. For example, Obamacare started out as a Republican idea, conceived by a right-leaning think tank and tried out (successfully) in Massachusetts. When President Obama proposed and passed it in Congress, it soon became clear that the only thing Republicans didn’t like about it was the Obama part. Now they want to fuss about alternatives, including Medicare for All or even a Medicare option in the marketplace. But they have yet to propose any idea to ensure health care for everybody. That’s the revealing truth. And that’s what’s wrong. BRUNI: As a member of the (very populous) camp of Americans who believe that President Trump is a great danger to us and that we desperately need him to be checked by at least one chamber of Congress in Democratic control, I have to admit that I’m spooked by some of what I’ve seen recently. A Washington Post/ABC News poll over the weekend showed that 58 percent of Americans rate the economy good or excellent — that’s a 17-year high. Another recent poll showed that the generic-Democratic versus generic-Republican difference had collapsed from over 10 points to just six. Tell me why I shouldn’t — or should — be hugely worried. PATRICK: The economy is getting stronger and that’s good. The Obama administration laid that foundation, and if the Trump administration can sustain it, the president and his team will get to take their bow, too. TRIPPI: It’s not who is going to get credit for the economy. Presidents always do, regardless of being deserved or not. What is incredible to me is that for the first time we have seen this connection unhinge. It has always been: The economy goes up, so does the president’s approval. Until now. That says to me that Trump and the G.O.P. are in much bigger trouble than even I think. And that trouble is Trump himself. He is not benefiting from an improving perception of the economy because of his personality, his hostility, his divisiness. PATRICK: But too many people in too many places are still left out and left back. That has to matter to all of us. And fixing that demands long-term solutions. Short-term measures — like these latest tax cuts — won’t get that job done. Short-termism is a serious problem in modern politics. Republican lawmakers are selling out our future and our children’s future by paying for tax cuts today with exploding deficits tomorrow. They did the same thing during the George W. Bush presidency and drove the economy into a ditch. I’m convinced that voters want their candidates and their elected officials to stand for something, and to care about more than how to gain and stay in office. I also think that history shows that when Democrats do what’s right for the long-term interests of the country, it’s pretty good politics, too. TRIPPI: Voters can’t stop the chaos. And I think in the midterms that is what people will want to do — stop the chaos. Angry, bitter candidates on either side will be seen as adding to the chaos and fighting in Washington and are not going to do as well in many of these states and districts. BRUNI: My next question, I know, is a sensitive one, but it really must be asked. Are Democrats hurting themselves by preserving a roster of congressional leaders that’s so veteran, so old, so familiar, so caricatured in cases? I’m not impugning their accomplishments. I’m talking about hardheaded, cold strategy. Republican strategists tell me that they love the fact that Nancy Pelosi, from San Francisco, still presides over Democrats in the House. They don’t think Chuck Schumer in the Senate is doing the party any big national favors, either. Should there be more of a movement for a youth-ifying turnover in congressional leadership? Should Pelosi and Steny Hoyer & Co. let go? PATRICK: It’s not about the players, it’s about the play. I love the fact that so many people are engaged for the first time or for the first time in a long time. And I love that a new generation of leaders is asserting themselves. But we have to focus on and fight for our values first. If Democrats focus on fixing the health care system, expanding the economy to those left out and securing our communities consistent with the Constitution, and Republicans focus on Schumer and Pelosi, Democrats win. TRIPPI: There is going to be a generational fight within the party. As you point out, it has really already started. But I suspect that the true fight will not emerge until the 2020 primaries for president. A lot of the candidates we talk about today — Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren — may or may not run, but undoubtedly a younger generation of candidates will emerge. At the congressional level, it may get played out before then, but winning or losing a majority in the House or Senate could have a lot to do with how quickly that happens. BRUNI: Since you invoked the 2020 race, Joe Trippi, I sort of have to ask our conversation partner here if we’ll see his name in the mix. Governor Patrick, are you thinking about running? Update us on your state of mind and your plans. PATRICK: I didn’t invoke the 2020 race! Look, I’m focused on my business, investing for social and environmental impact, and I want to be as helpful as I can in the midterms. I think since the last presidential election everyone is asking themselves, rightly, whether we are doing all we’re supposed to be doing. That’s why I was so glad to be asked to help in Doug Jones’s Alabama race and why I hope to be able to help that way again. TRIPPI: Oh, come on, governor! O.K., I’ll say it — it would be a good thing for the party to have his ideas in the 2020 race. BRUNI: Have the Democrats found their 2018 message yet? Is there any sign that they’re reconnecting with the white Rust Belt voters who moved from Obama to Trump in 2016? If so, what is that sign? If not, tell me what you’d like to see from the party and its midterm candidates that you’re not yet seeing. PATRICK: Not yet. While I don’t think Democrats have to all say exactly the same thing in the same way, I don’t think there is yet real cohesion. TRIPPI: When you do not have the White House, it’s really unusual for a party in the minority to find its message. PATRICK: I don’t accept that we need different messages for different voters. Opioid addiction was a crisis before it got to the suburbs. Rapid economic change that upended families and whole communities was a challenge before it touched white working-class people. Mass incarceration was a problem before it started to crowd out other needs in state and local budgets. The point is that the challenges we face are facing everybody everywhere. Republicans behave as if favoring a few will eventually help everybody. Democrats believe serving everybody serves the common good. The more we caste our approach in those terms — unifying, humble, enabling, responsive, about a better common future — the more we win, and deserve to win. TRIPPI: The midterms and the ensuing 2020 fight for the presidential nomination is a fight for that message. So you are going to see the largest field of candidates in 2018 all running with different ideas and messages — those that succeed will have a big impact on 2020 and the message the nominee carries. BRUNI: I have to say that while I find the absence of a pointed, super-coherent message understandable, for the reasons you both cite, it really troubles me. Simply bashing Trump — bashable though he may be — didn’t do the trick for Hillary Clinton in the Electoral College. It may not do the trick in many of these hypercompetitive districts. PATRICK: Totally agree. There’s a lot wrong with Trumpism and the shameless Republican embrace of it. But voters want and deserve to hear more about what’s right with us. TRIPPI: The mistake is to bash citizens who are Republican — many of them want an alternative to their party. Bashing Trump and anyone who supported him doesn’t help bring these voters over. BRUNI: So, Joe Trippi, you’re saying: “Please. No more baskets. No more deplorables.”? TRIPPI: Yes, probably the single biggest mistake — in a campaign that saw many of them — perhaps was the “deplorables.” BRUNI: Is there any part of Trump’s playbook that Democrats would be wise to steal? Any particular lesson from his political success that can, and should, be applied across the aisle and might be beneficial to Democrats not just in 2020 but in 2018? PATRICK: There are two things that come to mind. First, I think the one truth that candidate Trump spoke during the campaign is that conventional or establishment politics really isn’t working well enough for most people. Second, innovation in government is just as critical as it is in the private sector. Successful innovation requires a higher tolerance for failure. But politics punishes failure. I reject most of Trump’s “innovations” because they come from a place of meanness and division. But the willingness to try new things and new ways is a lesson we should take. TRIPPI: From a campaign point of view: The way he uses Twitter to get the media to amplify his message is incredible, and they continue to fall for it — reading his tweets verbatim, repeatedly, no matter the attack. If we could only learn how to do that. The bigger one is the influx of bots on social media. I am not tying this to Trump or the G.O.P. But I am saying that Democrats need to figure out how to deal with this reality. In the Jones campaign we were tracking 10,000 bots that were posting 65,000 times an hour — things like hashtag #fakeyearbook. BRUNI: In observations that both of you have made, there’s acknowledgment of tension between what the fired-up Democratic base wants and what more moderate, swing voters — say, certain suburbanites — will respond to. Where does the Democrats’ almost going to the mat for Dreamers fit into it? Was there a danger that it would be seen, as Trump tweeted, as an emphasis on recent immigrants over national defense? Do Democrats need to be careful not to be drawn by Trump down racially divisive byways? PATRICK: It’s a lot to ask some communities to contain their anguish over what’s happening in their lives so that someone in some other community is not upset. All Americans understand that intentionally hurting innocents is not consistent with American values or character. If we let this issue or others affecting marginalized and vulnerable people to be “racialized,” we’re missing the point that the character of the country is what is at stake in our politics right now. I also want to be clear that Democrats won’t and don’t suggest that immigration reform is all we want to do. Making the economy work for everybody is a critical part of our agenda. That demands investment in education, innovation and infrastructure. TRIPPI: Any short-term gain playing on people’s fears today is likely to come back as a huge negative for the G.O.P. later. Democrats are fighting for where a vast majority of the American people are. They want to stop using these innocents as a political football. They want a DACA solution and stability. BRUNI: Let’s talk turkey, cut to the chase: Choose your cliché. I want you to look at each chamber of Congress and give me numbers. Let’s start with the House. How would you quantify the chances/odds of Democrats regaining control of it in November? And if you can, boil down to one sentence the main dynamic that the outcome will hinge on. TRIPPI: Main dynamic is easy. End the chaos. I am confident we stand to win a majority in the House. The size depends on a lot of the factors I talked about. I think the number of seats we need to win are already in play. Can we reach beyond that and win something like 235 seats? Yes, I think that is a real possibility. But nominating Democrats to run to represent their districts and not party activists will be key to many of them. PATRICK: I’m no political prognosticator. As a citizen, I am watching to see what kind of country we are. If the Democrats fight for a big-hearted, pragmatic, forward leaning, fearless country, we will win. TRIPPI: In the Senate, I also think we will pick up a few seats in some unexpected places. Alabama was not a one-off. People are truly underestimating the hunger to find common ground out there among the American people. As long as Trump is president, the G.O.P. is going to have a hard time convincing Americans that they are the party to help find it. PATRICK: Couldn’t agree more with Joe on this question, too. Beyond message, I hope we get comfortable competing everywhere. There is a special kind of political power in the respect shown by meeting people where they are, in every sense of the word, and asking them to see their stake in their own and their neighbors’ dreams. BRUNI: Gentlemen, thank you for your time and insights. And now we’ll all watch and see what happens. Gonna be a helluva year. TRIPPI: Its been fun, governor! PATRICK: Humbled to be with you both. Thanks for including me. TRIPPI: Wait, he said he was running, right? PATRICK: We’ll edit out Joe’s last comment. BRUNI: Definitely what I heard! And our headline! (Kidding.)