This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Voting rights have been under attack recently. In several states, officials — almost all of them Republican, alas — have tried to reduce voting hours, close polling stations or erect barriers to voting, like strict ID rules. These measures have disproportionately affected minorities. In fact, that has sometimes been the stated goal. But now a counterattack is underway. Not only are civil-rights advocates fighting the various attempts to restrict voting, they’re also pushing for new laws to expand it. One of those efforts took a step forward this week. Organizers in Florida announced that they had gathered enough signatures to put an initiative on the ballot this November that would restore voting rights to nearly 1.5 million convicted felons. Today, felon disenfranchisement denies the right to vote to one in five black Floridians — and 10 percent of the state’s total voting population. Daniel Nichanian of the University of Chicago offers another number that underscores the significance of the measure: It would restore the voting rights of more than 15 percent of all disenfranchised ex-felons nationwide. The initiative already has the support of at least one notable Florida Republican, Carlos Curbelo, a state representative. “Fellow Floridians who have made mistakes and paid their debt to society deserve an opportunity to have a voice in the future of our state and country,” he said in a statement. Florida is just one example of the voting-rights counterattack. Nevadans will vote in November on a proposal to automatically register voters when they apply for a driver’s license. New York State officials are also considering steps to make voting more convenient. In Washington State, Democrats in the legislature recently announced bills that would make it easier to register, including allowing 16- and 17-year-olds to preregister. In the short term, making it possible — and less burdensome — for every adult citizen to vote will probably help Democrats. But these measures will also unleash some new Republican votes. And regardless of the partisan effects, universal suffrage just should not be a partisan issue. Gymnastics. Readers of this newsletter know I’m a fan of local journalism. It played a big role in exposing the sex-abuse scandal in gymnastics that’s in the headlines this morning. A 2016 series by The Indianapolis Star broke the news of the abuse allegations against Larry Nassar, the doctor who was sentenced to up to 175 years in prison yesterday. The Star also revealed that the governing body for the Olympics gymnastics team mishandled abuse claims from many other gymnasts, extending well beyond Nassar. “It shouldn’t take investigative journalists to expose predators,” Angela Povilaitis, the Michigan assistant attorney general whose office prosecuted Nassar, said in the courtroom yesterday. “But thank God we have these journalists, and that they exposed this truth.” Podcast suggestion. I recommend this recent conversation between my colleague Ross Douthat and David Axelrod, the former Obama adviser, on the Axe Files podcast. The whole episode is good, but if you want just a taste, listen to them debate immigration policy, starting just before the 51:00 mark.