Almost 50 years ago, Hoang Thi Lien became a full member of the People’s Revolutionary Party, the political leadership of the Vietcong. To win this honor she had to help the Communists execute her illicit lover, a former village chief who was the father of her second son. It was the sort of moral bargain many Vietnamese had to make in a time and place when battles were fought on the unsteady terrain of people’s hearts and minds, while the actual landscape was under neither side’s firm control. Tears welled up in her eyes as Ms. Lien, now 84 and fragile from a stroke, recalled the man, Pham Van Binh, whom she set up to be captured, dragged into the jungle and executed. “He was not cruel to me,” she said in her small house in the village of Cam Lo in Quang Tri Province, with yellowing certificates of merit to the revolution on the wall. “I was forced to do that,” adding, “I was a loyalist to the revolution.” Advertisement Ms. Lien had also wept as she said goodbye to her husband, Le Dang Hong, when he and his Vietminh comrades were sent to North Vietnam in July 1954 under terms of the Geneva Agreement that ended the war against the French and divided the nation. She was 21 years old, and three months pregnant. The boy she bore five months later, Le Dang Phac, never met his father, who never returned home and was killed by American Rangers at the battle of West A Shau Valley in September 1969. Until 1962 Ms. Lien and her son lived as unofficial prisoners in the strategic hamlet of Quat Xa, controlled by the South Vietnamese Army and American advisers in daytime, and by the Vietcong at night. Even her relatives in the village stayed aloof because they feared being associated with the wife and son of a Communist fighter. “My mother and I felt hurt but we blamed nobody because of the overlapping control from two adversaries,” said Mr. Phac, now 63. “In that time of suspicion, the husband could not believe his wife and vice versa; parents distrusted their children, and siblings suspected each other.” To further alienate Communist warriors from their families, the regime of President Ngo Dinh Diem encouraged officials to form sexual relationships with the wives of rebels. While this may have been the impetus for Mr. Binh’s ill-fated affair with Ms. Lien, her oldest son, Mr. Phac, said they loved each other. “His house was close to ours, only 10 to 15 meters,” he recalled. “I was afraid that she might begin an affair so I would lie down on her belly and refuse to move. But I failed to prevent her from loving him.” Because of Ms. Lien’s connection to the former village chief, the local Vietcong felt safe using her house as a dead-letter drop and a way station for their troops and officials. The son she had with Mr. Binh, Le Dang Dung, now 56, would soon help cover for them. “When I was a little boy,” said Mr. Dung, “every morning, I had to wake up early around 4 a.m. to sweep the courtyard to erase the footprints of cadres who hid in my mother’s house.” Advertisement But his mother did not escape suspicion of the authorities. “They arrested, tortured, and sent her to jail many times,” he said. “I lived with her in the prisons and I suffered seeing my mother brutalized by the soapy waterboarding.” This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Even as she risked all to save the revolutionaries, the local party distrusted her. Mr. Dung did not know until years later that the fighters whom he protected with his sweeping would force his mother to choose between her life or his father’s. “It was a battle test,” Mr. Phac said bitterly. Mr. Phac and Mr. Dung and their mother were lucky compared with the family of Nguyen Huu Thoang, now 64, who lived in a nearby commune. Mr. Thoang’s mother also had a Vietminh husband who went north in 1954, when Mr. Thoang was 1 year old. In 1957 his mother became a concubine of the chief of the commune and gave birth to sons in 1960 and 1962. On a night in 1963, she and the chief were arrested and murdered by the local Vietcong. At age 10, Mr. Thoang had to take care of his two half brothers in a government strategic hamlet, going alone to the jungle to work as a charcoal burner. “Our life was so miserable,” Mr. Thoang said in an interview in his house at Cam Chinh, in central Vietnam. “We starved all day. The authorities allowed us to bring only a small beer can of rice out of the hamlet because they were afraid that we would provide rice to Vietcong in the jungle. I had to eat wild bananas to survive.” Every three to six months local administrators and security officers interrogated and tortured the families of Vietcong soldiers to ferret out Communists and sympathizers, Mr. Thoang said. But almost all families in disputed lands were divided in loyalty. Many parents faced the heartbreak of having their children face off and die on different side of battlefields. “My grandfather’s four children, including three sons and a daughter, were Vietcong fighters,” said Vo Quyet, who lived as a child in Trieu Phong, a strip of coast north of Hue and the site of bloody battles in the summer of 1972. “Meanwhile, my grandfather’s brother’s four sons were ARVN soldiers” — South Vietnamese troops. “All of them were killed in action but my aunt.” Advertisement “Our people were forced to choose a side,” he said. “We did not have rights; we did not have choices; we could not decide our destinies.” Dao Cong Kiet, 75, who lived in Trung Hai, a commune near the Demilitarized Zone, said his family, too, had to walk a fine line. “We needed to treat both sides well,” he said. When American and South Vietnamese troops came, “I invited them to eat bananas or drink tea.” He added, “We also provided rice for the Vietcong when they demanded.” Later, he was drafted into the South Vietnamese Army but escaped and fought with the Vietcong. “My leaders ordered me to murder the puppet officials, but I did not kill them,” he said. “They were my neighbors who lived in the same village, so how could I kill them?” However, even now, over 40 years since the war ended, its divisions persist. From 1968 until 1977, Mrs. Lien held positions in the Communist Party leadership. Then she was kicked out of the party because of her “illegitimate pregnancy” with a “counterrevolutionary lackey.” “My mother devoted all her life for them but after gaining the victory they trampled on her,” Mr. Dung said. His family, like so many others, remains, as his brother said, “tangled people who were tortured by the war.” “There were many wars intertwined in our blood,” Mr. Phac said. “We were Communists but we were not Communists. We were puppets but we were not puppets.” A painting of his father stands on the family altar. It has the face of his uncle because he did not know his father’s. Nor does know the date of his death, so he and his mother chose the 15th day of the seventh lunar month as the anniversary. According to Vietnamese tradition that is the day all lost souls, just and the unjust, are absolved of sin. Hai T. Nguyen is a postdoctoral fellow at the Vietnam Center at Texas Tech University. Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 