During my research for a civil-rights history of Birmingham, Ala., a coveted source was proving elusive: the Rev. Wyatt Tee Walker, who had been the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s chief of staff during the 1963 demonstrations at my story’s climax — and who died on Tuesday at age 88. For two years I had pestered his gatekeeper at the large Harlem church where he presided, and every time I called for an appointment, Lorraine Springsteen would chastise me, “Dr. Walker is a busy man!” Finally I pulled out all the reportorial stops and contacted him at home in Yonkers. We met up in January 1984 at a Manhattan television studio where he was taping a show about his recent mission to Syria with Jesse Jackson to negotiate the release of a black American airman. “I know you think Bull Connor is going to be the villain of my book,” I greeted him, referring to the civil rights movement’s nemesis in Birmingham City Hall, “but it’s really going to be Mrs. Springsteen.” He told her as much at his church office later. Perhaps he was getting back at me for blurting, “I don’t plan to spill my coffee,” in refusing one of the napkins his bodyguard procured after Mr. Walker bobbled his own cup. “Oh, that’s right, I forgot,” he said, rearing up magisterially. “You white people are perfect.” Maybe it wasn’t the “National Conversation on Race” that future presidents would prescribe if not exactly pursue, but Mr. Walker never hesitated to school this white child of segregated Birmingham. In that first encounter he taught me a crucial lesson about writing history: The truth is perverse. By then, I had conducted many interviews with movement veterans but had failed to turn up anyone who had actually been bitten by Connor’s dogs. So when I gingerly asked Mr. Walker if anyone had, he was appalled. “Why, sure some people got bit!” Then a sly smile. “I’d say at least two or three,” he said, smile dissolving into a smirk. “But a picture is worth a thousand words, darling.’” He was referring mainly to the instantly iconic Associated Press photograph taken on May 3, 1963, of a police dog attacking a black teenager. More than any single artifact, it brought an end to state-sponsored racism, prompting President John F. Kennedy’s administration to enter the Birmingham conflict on the side of the movement and soon introduce the civil rights bill that would abolish legal segregation. And more than any single human, Mr. Walker engineered that sublime moment of “creative tension,” a tableau of segregationist violence that yielded no serious injury. The irony was not lost on Mr. Walker that a couple of dog bites had achieved relief that 400 years of suffering had not. “It was no battle,” he told me of the showdown between police dogs and water hoses and marchers in Kelly Ingram Park. “It was a Roman holiday.” Mr. Walker would go on to become a bank director, doctor of philosophy, adviser to Gov. Nelson Rockefeller and fixture of New York activism. But it was as the self-proclaimed “oracle of Birmingham’” that he summoned all his provocative brilliance to produce a triumph of moral righteousness, strategic Realpolitik and mass-media manipulation that made history swerve. When he became executive director of King’s civil rights platform, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, in 1960, Mr. Walker imposed discipline and professionalism, leading with a virtuosity that some felt flirted with cynicism. His tactics in Birmingham were geared toward maximum media impact. Marches were scheduled to accommodate the evening news — and when recruits were scarce, Mr. Walker counted on spectators to inflate the white newsmen’s troop count. (“Marchers, spectators?” Mr. Walker said. “To them we all looked alike.”) He finessed a call from President Kennedy to Coretta Scott King when her husband was jailed, and came up with the idea for King to write his jailhouse epistle. His efforts to get “Letter from Birmingham Jail” published didn’t bear fruit until the campaign succeeded. Most important, Mr. Walker had known from the start that mass moral witnesses, such as the nonviolent marches led by praying ministers, would not be enough to turn public opinion against segregation and get the desired federal intervention. He would need the segregationists to act out visually the violence and evil at the system’s core. When Mr. Connor briefly deployed the German Shepherds in early April, Mr. Walker exulted, “We’ve got a movement. We had some police brutality. They brought out the dogs.” Within a month, he got his picture, and King the credit for bringing down American apartheid. Thirty-six years later in New York, March 1999, I was struck by echoes of Birmingham in the protests against Mayor Rudolph Giuliani over the unpunished police shooting of an unarmed African immigrant, Amadou Diallo. A photograph of one of the protesters — Mr. Giuliani’s predecessor David Dinkins, New York’s first and so far only black mayor — who was cuffed along with Representative Charles Rangel, reminded me especially of a picture of King and his deputy Ralph Abernathy being arrested in Birmingham on Good Friday, 1963. It didn’t surprise me to discover Mr. Walker’s fingerprints all over these electrifying demonstrations. He was at the time on the board of the Rev. Al Sharpton’s National Action Network, which organized the protests. Two years later, when my book on Birmingham came out, I brought a magazine photographer to Mr. Walker’s church to take our picture. He fixed me with his perfectionist glare and said, “I don’t know what it is about you journalists that makes you think Dr. King was so namby-pamby.” The last time I saw Mr. Walker was nine years ago, at a King holiday event in Dallas. He had retired from Harlem’s Canaan Baptist and moved to Virginia in the aftermath of strokes that left him dependent on a wheelchair and incapable of much facial expression, though his eyes still radiated trouble and his mouth still delivered the gibes. We clutched hands in front of a TV, watching the inauguration of Barack Obama as the 44th president of the United States. Neither of us had any notion when we accepted this speaking engagement that King’s 80th birthday might coincide with a more urgent civil rights milestone. The oracle and I cried, as over the fulfillment of a prophecy.