It is well documented that Americans are ever more divided: along party, ideological, socio-economic and cultural lines; by geographic, demographic, racial and religious differences. Our political polarization hampers our ability to tackle important national issues, whether immigration, infrastructure, timely budgeting or closing Guantánamo. The recent government shutdown and the looming threat of another underscore this problem. The same policy stagnation afflicts our ability to confront the most pressing threats to our security, from North Korea to the risk of terrorists acquiring weapons of mass destruction, from pandemic disease to Russian aggression. Our ability to counter such outside menaces is increasingly undermined by our collective failure to work together. Indeed, the most significant, long-term threat to our security may be our domestic political polarization. America’s adversaries exploit the vulnerability created by our dysfunctional democracy. Today, in contrast to Sept. 11, a terrorist attack is more likely to divide than unite us, as we saw after Benghazi, San Bernardino, Calif., and, most recently, Niger. This makes us an even more attractive target, as our enemies benefit not only from the initial attack but also from the lasting consequences of a more fractious, fragmented America. Similarly, the Iranians know that our resolve to prevent them from acquiring a nuclear weapon may crumble under partisan pressure. China is pursuing its economic and strategic ambitions in Asia unconstrained by an America so divided that we jettisoned the Trans-Pacific Partnership agreement we negotiated, while its signatories reap its rewards without us. The Russians, too, have preyed on our divisions, interfering in the 2016 presidential election; they reportedly continue to amplify false news stories on social media that stoke fear of “the other.” This is how Russia reached and likely influenced voters with messages that magnify mutual hostility and favor particular candidates. Our divisions impede our ability to defend against foreign adversaries. Two of the three congressional investigations into Russian meddling in the 2016 election are foundering over partisan efforts to distract from mounting evidence supporting the intelligence community’s high confidence that such meddling occurred. The special counsel, Robert Mueller, and the F.B.I. have also been subjected to outrageous and dishonest assaults on their integrity and professionalism. Even the Senate Foreign Relations Committee can’t agree on the Russian threat. The ranking Democrat, Benjamin Cardin of Maryland, recently released a well-documented report outlining how President Vladimir Putin of Russia has undermined democracy in his own country and in Europe. It contains smart recommendations on strengthening our security. But the committee’s majority declined to join in issuing the report. Now, with midterm elections just nine months away and the Russians seemingly undeterred, neither the administration nor Congress has taken discernible action to reduce our vulnerability to electoral interference. There appears little prospect that our leaders are ready to “put country over party,” even to confront the most serious foreign threat to our democracy since World War II. Domestic divisions are longstanding, but they are worsening to an extent not seen since the Vietnam era. Many factors have contributed: unregulated money in politics; partisan gerrymandering; cable news and social media, which allow us to filter the information we consume; and political segregation along geographic lines. All have accelerated the atrophy of the political center in favor of extremists on both left and right. We lack civil discourse across ideological boundaries, such that college professors issue trigger warnings and students seek to block campus speakers whose views they find noxious. And now we have a president who fuels political, racial and religious fissures from the White House bully pulpit and gives comfort to white nationalists. Worse, many of his congressional allies serially defend or ignore his behavior. I know of no silver bullet to address our deepening domestic divisions. I do know we need to acknowledge and defeat them with the urgency a wartime adversary warrants. We need to demand leaders who aim to unite rather than divide us. We need to stop demonizing “the other,” and explain, listen and learn from one another. We need to teach our children, and reteach ourselves, that facts are facts. There is no eliding truth and falsehood. We need to know basic civics, our founding documents, how to think critically, and to distinguish the bogus from the truthful. We need social media to require truth in advertising, so that foreign adversaries can’t stoke discord undetected. We need to reform campaign finance and end gerrymandering. We need to fix our electoral vulnerabilities and hold our adversaries accountable, as bipartisan legislation just introduced by Senators Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, and Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, rightly aims to do. Above all, we need to decide whether we want to remain the world’s pre-eminent power — a strong, cohesive beacon of democracy — or if we are content to allow our national autoimmune disorder, like a flesh-eating disease, to devour our body politic. President Trump’s State of the Union address next week has the potential to be pivotal. Some will no doubt be comforted if he somehow manages to strike a unifying tone. But what truly matters is whether his actions can finally match any short-lived words.