Cambridge, Mass. — Amid the budget turbulence in Washington, it’s easy to miss the fact that part of what’s at stake is America’s dominance in science, engineering and innovation. The United States has been the world leader in these categories for so long that we have stopped believing it could be any other way. But other nations, seeing us lose focus, are seizing the chance to rise. Scientific and technological leadership doesn’t happen by accident. It results from an open political and competitive economic system, from a commitment to recruit and train top talent from all social and economic levels, and from sustained investment. Since World War II, federal investment in research has been a key to keeping the United States at the forefront. Federal dollars have enabled scientists and engineers to investigate advanced ideas and the most unlikely technical solutions, to develop new knowledge before it’s clear whether it will be profitable. That new knowledge has revolutionized health care, spawned new businesses and created the digital world. As President Ronald Reagan put it, “although basic research does not begin with a particular practical goal,” it’s “one of the most practical things government does.” Other nations understand this and are aggressively challenging our lead by trying to copy the United States model. They are making scientific investment a priority and are pushing for partnerships between government, universities and industry. China is the clearest example. Since 2000, China’s spending on research and development has grown by an average of 18 percent each year, while ours grew by only 4 percent. This has placed China a decisive second in R & D expenditures behind the United States, where the government and private sector together invest far more than any other country. Even so, the share of R & D funded by the federal government declined to about 25 percent from just over 30 percent from 2010 to 2015. Over the next five years, the Chinese government plans to invest 100 times more in artificial intelligence than the United States government did in 2016. And within the past year, China erased the American advantage in supercomputing. It now claims more than 200 of the fastest 500 supercomputers, while the United States has fewer than 150. How is the United States responding? Despite bipartisan agreement that science and technology investments are critical for our nation, federal science agencies struggle to make long-term plans, stymied by continuing resolutions in Congress that provide only short-term funding for government programs and by stringent caps on both civilian and military spending. Basic research has given us the GPS, the internet, 3-D printing and many if not most other amenities of our modern world. Now, because of budget indecision and inadequate funding levels, federal agencies regularly turn down research proposals that they rate as excellent, and promising young researchers, brimming with ideas, face ever more barriers to establishing their careers. We cannot continue to advance the frontiers of knowledge and lead the world in innovation without funding for students and equipment, and when the only long-term federal commitment is to fiscal uncertainty. The generation that propelled us into space is retiring. Both industry and the federal government report that they are unable to find enough workers at all levels with sufficient technical skills. These reports are especially problematic in the national security arena, where employees must be United States citizens. The National Security Agency has experienced significant levels of attrition in jobs requiring substantial technical knowledge. Other nations are not simply biding their time as we threaten ourselves with stagnation. This is not the moment to stop investing in our future. As President Trump warns in the U.S. National Security Strategy, “Losing our innovation and technological edge would have far-reaching negative implications for American prosperity and power.” When investments in R & D produce new scientific and technological advances, those advances can in turn spawn new companies and even whole new industries, creating good jobs in a variety of fields. We want those jobs in the United States. Fifty-five years ago, President John F. Kennedy challenged Americans to literally shoot for the moon. His words were met not just with applause on Capitol Hill, but also with years of steady investment in research and education. Today we face stronger economic and technical competition than we did in 1961. To confront that challenge successfully, the federal government needs to respond with farsighted strategic investment in key aspects of technology, science and education. That will be impossible if government spending caps remain too tight or if agencies are hamstrung for months by fiscal stalemate. To write the next great chapter in the story of our nation, we must continue to fuel discovery.