How, despite his precarious “family values,” has President Trump maintained his status as a darling of the religious right? It’s simple: He made a promise to “never ever stand for religious discrimination,” and his administration is helping him keep it — at least for some. Last week, the  Department of Health and Human Services announced a new Conscience and Religious Freedom Division in its Office of Civil Rights. Pointing to what this administration views as insufficient enforcement of 25 existing federal laws protecting health care workers’s conscience, the department seeks to ensure that no one is “compelled to participate in procedures such as abortion, sterilization and assisted suicide when it would violate their religious beliefs or moral convictions.” In a proposed plan for the new division, which is currently open for public comment but likely to be finalized without significant changes, the department explains its intention to “encourage individuals and organizations with religious beliefs and moral convictions to enter, or remain, in the health care industry.” Roger Severino, the head of the civil rights office, argued that “no one should be forced to choose between helping sick people and living by one’s deepest moral or religious convictions.” Sounds nice. But if the goal is to provide expansive protection of conscience, why are these emphatic new efforts so one-sided, focused solely on the plight of health care workers who refuse care on moral grounds — people whom the department is already equipped to protect — while ignoring those who seek to provide medically accepted services? And more important, why is the nation’s public health agency ignoring patient needs? Federal conscience protection laws for health care providers have developed over the past 45 years, generally focusing on the right to refuse to perform, accommodate or assist with certain services — most typically abortion — on religious or moral grounds. But the 1973 Church Amendment, the first of these conscience clauses, is broader. Rather than sheltering medical personnel from workplace discrimination only when they refuse to provide abortions and sterilizations, this law also protects those who are willing to do so. The Department of Health and Human Services seems to have forgotten these inclusive roots. In their zeal to underscore the need for strong conscience protections, none of the speakers unveiling the Conscience and Religious Freedom Division mentioned physicians like Willie Parker, an obstetrician/gynecologist who views providing abortion as religious ministry. But Dr. Parker and his colleagues face enormous obstacles to acting upon their moral convictions. Despite Church Amendment protections, abortion providers are often denied admitting privileges and threatened with adverse employment actions, and they face difficulty getting training. That these obstacles were not highlighted by the department is telling, suggesting that its new enforcement efforts are unlikely to safeguard these exercises of conscience. Health care workers seeking to provide services to the transgender community — care that can be lifesaving — can also face substantial roadblocks despite their belief in an ethical and professional obligation to act in their patients’ best interest. For example, when Lindsey Dawson set out to provide a hysterectomy to a transgender patient seeking to transition, her efforts were impeded by the Catholic hospital where she practiced. Being forced to refrain from care — like being forced to provide it — can conflict with a person’s sense of moral duty. As Dr. Daphna Stroumsa, another physician serving transgender patients, explained to us, “As a matter of conscience, I am called to do this work.” If the new division is as serious about protecting conscience as it claims to be, it should commit to enforcing the Church Amendment’s existing protections for both refusers and providers of abortion and sterilization services, as Congress intended. More generally, it should recognize that conscientious providers encounter legal and institutional barriers to acting on their convictions. The department should encourage Congress to emulate the Church Amendment’s bidirectional protection in all federal conscience clauses and should use its own policymaking authority to protect providers seeking to promote patient access. In a landscape littered with obstacles to care, patient access is critical. Yet in the department’s 216-page proposal, patient access is barely addressed outside a request for public comment as to whether “the existence or expansion of rights to exercise religious beliefs or moral convictions” will affect patient outcomes or result in “unjustified limitation” of access to care. But we already know that it will. The Department of Health and Human Services could work to dismantle some of these barriers, however, if it decided to prioritize patients. For example, the Trump administration chose not to appeal a district court order blocking the department from enforcing a prohibition on discrimination against patients on the basis of sex (including gender identity) — but it could, and should. The department should also work to limit the impact of conscientious objection on patients by ensuring that they have access to all the information they need as part of informed consent. And it should require that institutions and individuals explicitly disclose any conscience-based limitations on care at the first point of patient contact. Given that the Department of Health and Human Services has chosen to emphasize refusal over access, however, it is unlikely to take these crucial steps. Its new division is touted as a bastion of tolerance and inclusiveness. But in reality, it intends to only shield a select few.