NASHVILLE — In 1978, the city of Nashville leased 18 acres of a Civil War monument to a local businessman who wanted to start a new baseball franchise — the Nashville Sounds, then a Double A expansion team for the Southern League — and needed a place for his team to play. It was a ludicrous arrangement from the start: a privately owned ball field built on public land. And not just any public land. Greer Stadium was built at the base of St. Cloud Hill, where the Union Army erected a stronghold after taking control of the city in 1862. Fort Negley was an investment designed to protect the Union’s hold on Nashville and its strategic access to roads, railroad lines and the Cumberland River. Fort Negley Park is not a Civil War monument in the South that celebrates the heroism of the Confederacy, in other words. Fort Negley Park is a Civil War monument in the South that celebrates the preservation of the United States of America. The question of what will happen to it has roiled Nashville for more than a year. In part, that’s because it’s a crucial site for African-American history as well. During the war, the grounds surrounding Fort Negley served as a de facto refugee camp for escaped slaves. In an irony lost on no one today, the Union Army immediately forced those refugees into service; under brutal conditions, some 2,700 of them built Fort Negley itself. Many lost their lives and are believed to be buried at Fort Negley Park. When the South surrendered, the survivors — joined by other freed slaves — settled there. Today the area is gentrifying, home to new art galleries and coffee shops, but it is still populated largely by low-income African-Americans. In their midst now lies one badly overgrown and dilapidated minor-league ball field. Greer Stadium has sat empty since the Nashville Sounds departed at the end of the 2014 season. As part of a preserved Civil War site, the stadium’s location has long been designated as public parkland, going back to 1928, when the city bought it from the descendants of John Overton, a longtime crony of President Andrew Jackson. That parcel was always meant to revert to parkland once the Sounds decamped. The actual fort at Fort Negley Park was dismantled after the Union Army withdrew in 1867, but history set its hand on the site a second time during the Depression, when a facsimile of the fort was rebuilt there by 800 laborers funded by the Works Progress Administration. That reproduction ultimately fell into ruin and for decades was closed to the public, but 1996 brought a plan to restore the site again. Fort Negley reopened in 2004, on the 140th anniversary of the Battle of Nashville. The next year it was designated a National Historic Landmark District. Three years after the Sounds left, Mayor Megan Barry released a request for proposals related to the site of the old stadium. The request was not for Metro Parks to create a plan for desperately needed green space in an already overpaved urban core. The request was not for the Metro Historical Commission to create a plan to preserve the legacy of African-Americans who gave their lives to preserve the Union. It was not a request for the Friends of Fort Negley, an advocacy group, to create a plan to expand the educational reach of the site. The plans the mayor requested were for private development under a land-lease arrangement much like the one that allowed Greer Stadium to be built there in the first place. Let’s call what happened next the second Battle of Nashville. For years this city has been undergoing rapid, unchecked growth, and it desperately needs affordable housing and subsidized work spaces for artists and innovators. That much everyone agrees on. When the mayor’s office approved a plan by the Cloud Hill partnership, headed by the developer Bert Mathews and the music producer T Bone Burnett, for a mixed-use private development that would include music and art studios, retail space and housing at three price points — affordable, work force and market rate — it made a kind of sense. But an army of green-space advocates and historic preservationists quickly mobilized to point out what would seem to be obvious: Nashville owns a lot of land, and there is no good reason to allow for-profit development in a park with huge historic significance. For an entire year, Betsy Phillips, a local historian, published article after article in The Nashville Scene, looking at every possible angle for understanding the importance of Fort Negley, particularly its significance to African-American history. The bottom line, she wrote in December, is that we preserve historic sites for future generations because “we don’t know what the future might need from the past.” The best-selling historical novelist Robert Hicks, an advocate for preserving Civil War historic sites, entered the fray. A Nashville council member sued Metro government, arguing that the mayor’s office didn’t follow city rules in granting the development contract. The country music legend Kix Brooks took to Facebook to plead for preserving the integrity of the park. Historic Nashville Inc., a nonprofit that each year releases a list of the nine most endangered historical sites in the city, took the unprecedented step in 2017 of naming only one: Fort Negley. The Friends of Fort Negley, led by the historian Clay Bailey, took a multipronged approach to raising the site’s national profile. It petitioned the Tennessee Historical Commission to designate Fort Negley Park a “historical memorial,” a label that under state law means a site cannot be altered without a waiver from the commission itself. With help from Nashville’s N.A.A.C.P. chapter, it submitted a proposal for Fort Negley to be included in Unesco’s slave route registry — the first United States site to be nominated for this international recognition. The group produced a website and a video summarizing the issues for a public that was finally tuning in: In its annual Open Season on Open Spaces report, the Cultural Landscape Foundation in Washington recognized Fort Negley as one of 13 nationally significant landscapes in need of protection. And all this was happening against the backdrop of a national debate about Civil War monuments. Defenders of monuments to Robert E. Lee and Nathan Bedford Forrest, the Confederate generals most often at the heart of these contentions, are fond of pointing out that such statues weren’t erected to celebrate the institution of slavery; they were erected to celebrate Southern history. The anti-monument contingent rolls its eyes at this argument: If not for antislavery sentiment in the North, the South would never have seceded. It’s important to note that Southern attitudes to Civil War monuments are not uniform, though the pro-con divide typically follows the rural-urban divide. In 2015, Nashville’s Metro Council voted to petition the Tennessee Department of Transportation to plant obscuring vegetation in front of a truly hideous statue of Nathan Bedford Forrest on I-65. The giant statue is visible from the highway to anyone entering the city from the south, but it stands on private land, and for that reason the department declined to intervene. Never mind that the T.D.O.T. itself removed the obscuring vegetation back in 1998, when the statue was first erected. Last month activists took matters into their own hands and painted the statue pussy-hat pink. The Tennessee Heritage Protection Act was passed in 2013 and updated in 2016 with what seemed to be an express intent to prevent municipalities in Tennessee from taking down Confederate memorials. (Yes, this is the same act currently being invoked to protect Fort Negley.) Last month city leaders in Memphis found a novel way around the state’s intrusion into municipal decisions: They sold two city parks to a nonprofit. Within hours of the sale, statues of Nathan Bedford Forrest and Jefferson Davis had been removed. On Jan. 12, back in Nashville, the development controversy finally came to a close when an archaeological survey commissioned by the city found it “highly likely” that the former slaves who built Fort Negley are still buried there. Cloud Hill formally withdrew its development proposal, and it’s not clear what will happen to the Greer parcel now. Nashville’s 2018 parks budget does not include funding for bulldozing Greer Stadium and returning it to parkland, but Mayor Barry recently acknowledged that the presence of slave graves changes the way the old baseball stadium should be approached. “The likelihood of graves means that we should reassess plans for this site so as to better honor and preserve the history of the men and women who died in the construction of a fort that helped save the Union,” she wrote in a statement. “As we move forward, I want to see that whatever happens with the Greer Stadium site will honor that history, while bringing the community together around a shared vision. I have faith in the ability of all stakeholders to work together to identify and coalesce around this vision.” It’s fair to assume that the supporters of other Civil War monuments around the state of Tennessee will not be coalescing around this vision to preserve a site that celebrates a different kind of history, but the Friends of Fort Negley is moving ahead with plans of its own. Last Thursday it announced that Kix Brooks will serve on a new committee. Its goal: to unite Nashville around a plan — and funding — for a reunified Fort Negley Park. 