This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. The evidence that President Trump obstructed justice has come in dribs and drabs. But when that evidence is compiled in one place, I think it becomes overwhelming. My column this morning is organized around a list of 10 instances when Trump has tried to interfere with the federal investigation into his campaign’s relationship with Russia. You can read the column here. I decided to use a list for historical reasons. When Congress drafted articles of impeachment against both Richard Nixon and Bill Clinton, it used a list to make the case that each had obstructed justice. Nixon’s list — in the first article of impeachment passed by the House Judiciary Committee — had nine items. Clinton’s list had seven. My list for Trump has 10 items (and of course is based only on the publicly known facts so far). Impeachment is a tricky subject, I realize. Trump’s two immediate predecessors — George W. Bush and Barack Obama — were both the subjects of reckless impeachment talk, which has understandably made some people wary of the topic. And congressional Republicans so far show no willingness to consider impeachment, which can make its discussion feel pointless. But my column this morning asks a different question: Is serious consideration of impeachment the appropriate response to Trump’s behavior as president? I believe the answer is yes. For more on this subject, I again recommend Cass Sunstein’s brief, highly readable book, “Impeachment.” It doesn’t mention Trump once. It’s instead a historical and legal guide to the subject, and it’s scrupulously evenhanded. Also: an August piece in Lawfare, by Jane Chong and Benjamin Wittes, “It’s Time: Congress Needs to Open a Formal Impeachment Inquiry”; a November piece in Vox, by Ezra Klein, “The case for normalizing impeachment”; and a more detailed Brookings brief, looking at Trump’s obstruction of justice, by Barry Berke, Noah Bookbinder and Norman Eisen. A final note: If you follow the links from my column, you’ll notice how much of our current knowledge about Trump’s actions stems from great investigative reporting, mostly by journalists at The New York Times and The Washington Post. I also link to a good piece this weekend in Foreign Policy. #MeToo or #SoWhat? The Washington Post’s Ruth Marcus is tough on Hillary Clinton’s decision to do almost nothing in 2008 about a campaign adviser accused of sexually harassing a female subordinate. The same adviser later behaved similarly toward other young women. “This episode and its aftermath exposes, once again, the trademark Clinton failure to take personal responsibility; the allergy to owning up to error; the refusal to cede any ground, no less apologize; the incessant double-standarding, with different, more forgiving rules for the Clintons and their loyalists,” Marcus argues. And my colleague Susan Chira wrote in yesterday’s Sunday Review: “The episode is a poignant reminder that placing women in positions of leadership does not ensure they will always act to protect other women.”