The F.B.I. director, Christopher Wray, has begun clearing the Augean stables at the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which should prompt a broader — and long overdue — cleanup of the government’s sloppy intelligence operations. But he and Attorney General Jeff Sessions may face their greatest obstacle in the form of their president. Donald Trump’s impulse to transform every activity of government into a partisan conflict undermines the difficult task of repairing a Justice Department that sorely needs it. On Monday, Mr. Wray’s reform effort took an important step forward with the resignation of Andrew McCabe, the F.B.I.’s deputy director. Mr. McCabe had worked on the F.B.I.’s investigation into Hillary Clinton’s unsecured private computer network even though his wife, as a candidate for a Virginia State Senate seat, had received $500,000 in campaign contributions from a Clinton friend. That conflict of interest was one of many during the 2016 election that seemed to afflict Main Justice, as the Justice Department headquarters is known (and where I worked in the George W. Bush administration with Mr. Wray, whom I have known since law school). Attorney General Loretta Lynch’s tarmac meeting with former President Bill Clinton in June 2016, while his wife was under investigation, created another appearance of a conflict of interest. Ms. Lynch’s recusal led to the July news conference where James Comey announced that he would not seek charges against Hillary Clinton. In doing so, Mr. Comey violated longstanding department practice against publicly discussing the targets of investigations, and he seized authority from prosecutors on whether to indict Mrs. Clinton. To compound these errors, Mr. Comey announced he had reopened and then shut down again the investigation just a few weeks before the election. Justice Department alumni of both parties expressed shock at the politicization of law enforcement during the election. “This whole mess was the Justice Department’s worst episode since Watergate,” Laurence Silberman, a federal appeals court judge, wrote in The Wall Street Journal. “I doubt,” he added, “the bureau will ever completely recover.” But leave it to Mr. Trump to shoot himself and his administration, which is trying to clean things up, in the foot. He has taunted Mr. McCabe for months on Twitter. And in a phone conversation with him, the president reportedly called Mr. McCabe’s wife “a loser” in an apparent dig about the Virginia race. By attacking Mr. McCabe and by continuing to attack the F.B.I., Mr. Trump has clouded an overdue changing of the guard and has provoked resistance to reform efforts. Democrats can now fairly characterize his actions as politically motivated. Another opportunity for departmental reform comes in the debate over whether to release a Republican congressional memo that outlines abuses in electronic surveillance. In the memo, drawn from classified material, the staff of the House Intelligence Committee under Devin Nunes, Republican of California, apparently alleges that the Obama Justice Department sought a warrant for an electronic wiretap based on a dossier financed by the Clinton campaign and produced by Fusion GPS with information surreptitiously provided by Russian intelligence. If descriptions of its contents are true, the memo details a shocking collapse of standards in one of the government’s most important jobs: collecting foreign intelligence to stop terrorist attacks and enemy spies. The president has the constitutional authority to classify and declassify secrets. President Trump could allow the Justice Department to negotiate with the House over release of the Nunes memo, so as to protect intelligence sources and methods. An agreement could also provide the starting point for review and restructuring of the department’s national security division and its management of electronic surveillance. But again, the president seems unable to allow good government to proceed freely. Instead, he has claimed for months that the Obama administration hatched a conspiracy to illegally eavesdrop on him and, according to reports, has decided to approve release of the Nunes memo even before reviewing it. Again, Mr. Trump risks the prospects for departmental reform to score political points against Mr. Obama. These episodes reveal a shortcoming in Mr. Trump’s understanding of the presidency. He has the constitutional power to push out Mr. McCabe and to release the Nunes memo. Yet doing so is a serious political misuse of that power. Machiavelli, the father of modern thinking about executive power, described ideal princes as quick to execute the law and able to act “at a stroke.” In Federalist 70, Alexander Hamilton extended the insight to argue that the executive should act with “decision, activity, secrecy and dispatch.” The founders believed that presidents advance the public good when they draw upon their undefined powers to respond to emergencies. Mr. Trump acts at odds with the founders’ vision. Rather than conserving his authority for true crises, he seems intent on creating and prolonging false ones. This may appeal to his base, but he is eroding the presidency’s constitutional power and political authority. He may not find them there when necessity forces him to confront a real challenge, as when surely one comes.