Leni Riefenstahl, the Nazi filmmaker, desperately wanted her movies to be viewed as distinct from herself and her politics. They were, she insisted, artistic “cinéma vérité.” But in reality, they were propaganda — communicative devices with clear and biased political goals not subject to interpretation, and therefore rightfully categorized as something other than art. “To cast Riefenstahl in the familiar role of the individualist-artist,” Susan Sontag wrote in The New York Review of Books in 1975, “should seem like nonsense to anyone who has seen ‘Triumph of the Will’ — the most successfully, most purely propagandistic film ever made, whose very conception negates the possibility of the filmmaker’s having an aesthetic or visual conception independent of propaganda.” It’s important to note that Sontag staked her argument not on Riefenstahl’s wicked personhood so much as on the fact that her movies were exclusively about espousing those views. “The force of her work is precisely in the continuity of its political and aesthetic ideas,” she wrote. All of this came to mind upon the recent news that an exhibition of the work of the photorealist artist Chuck Close at the National Gallery in Washington was canceled because of sexual harassment accusations against him. Women who came to his studio to pose for him between 2005 and 2013 said he made them feel uncomfortable and exploited. One claimed the artist told her that her vagina “looks delicious.” Mr. Close, who is 77, denies the accusations vociferously. But the curators insist the show can’t go on. “Given the recent attention on their personal lives, we discussed postponement of the installations with each artist,” said Anabeth Guthrie, the museum’s chief of communications, in an email to The Washington Post, mentioning also the cancellation of an exhibition of the photographer Thomas Roma, who has been accused of sexual misconduct by several of his former students at Columbia. “It is not the appropriate time to present these installations.” Other institutions took immediate action. Seattle University, for one, removed its Close self-portrait from display. “We were concerned about potential student, faculty or staff reaction to seeing the self-portrait,” the university’s representatives wrote in an email published in the Seattle weekly The Stranger, “and decided that the prudent and proactive course of action would be to replace the self-portrait with another work.” It’s tempting to say that if an artist is an immoral person — a sexual harasser, as is alleged in this instance — then his art must also be poisonous and should be tossed out. Such a stance is certainly comforting in its moral clarity. But the conflation of personhood and artwork implies that what Mr. Close has created is not artwork so much as propaganda, and that, to paraphrase Sontag, the force of his work is predicated on his harassment. This is simply not the case. What Mr. Close makes is indeed of artistic merit: in its innovative aesthetic value and, more important, in its openness to interpretation. To reduce his creations to pure personal biography is to strip them of their status as art. Mr. Close’s works — let alone the works of Pablo Picasso, an infamous misogynist who said such things as “Women are machines for suffering” and “There are only two kinds of women: goddesses and doormats,” or Egon Schiele, who was arrested for kidnapping and statutory rape — are not simply reflections of the artists’ own actions and beliefs. To treat them as such would be to make a categorical error. Mr. Close’s artwork does not deserve to be erased from the history of art, or even taken out of permanent collections, as some smaller institutions have already done, like at Seattle University, and some larger ones, like the Broad in Los Angeles, are reportedly considering. Even if certain artists are unpleasant, immoral, even criminal, to look at their work is to still learn something. It is to still grapple with grander questions that go beyond the artist himself. The place, of course, in which these questions might be dealt with, in which the viewer gets to contend with the many facets of the art and the artist, is in these very institutions. That said, the National Gallery seems to have made the correct decision in canceling Mr. Close’s exhibition while keeping his works in its permanent collection. Artists, even celebrated ones like Mr. Close, who are still alive should not live free of consequence for their actions. If he is indeed guilty of the kinds of exploitation and unacceptable comments he is alleged to have made, he should not be able to benefit from the prestige and increased value of his work that would come his way from a major exhibit like this one. (Likewise Mr. Roma, if the accusations against him are true.) But if Mr. Close is no longer deserving of a prestigious exhibition, some might reasonably fear that we’re riding a terribly slippery slope. Are we headed toward a world without exhibitions of other immoral, sometimes criminal artists like Paul Gauguin, Picasso or Schiele, to name a few of our most talented and most personally brutal artists? The answer is no. These men are dead and no longer able to personally benefit from exhibitions of their work. They should remain in permanent collections, as their art — as Mr. Close’s will likely be — is still deeply important to the timeline of art history. It cannot be so easily taken out. If one were able to entirely dismiss the works of bad men from the history of art and music, unbridgeable gaps would still remain. Where would Henri Matisse have been, for instance, without Gauguin’s revolutionary use of undiluted color? Where would the fractured, suspenseful phrasing structure that makes up so much of what is now considered “epic” music be without Richard Wagner? We should never accept Wagner’s Nazi ties, but his technical and formal contributions to music are neither personal nor inherently evil and thus we must reckon with his genuine contribution to the history of music. For the rest of his lifetime, if these allegations prove true, it seems unlikely that Mr. Close will get many further major, public exhibitions. But the most important reckoning — the question of Mr. Close’s artistic legacy and his place in the history of art — will necessarily come only after he is gone, when only his work remains.