On Dec. 22, Gov. John Kasich of Ohio signed Senate Bill 164 banning doctors from performing abortions in cases in which a fetus is likely to have Down syndrome according to prenatal testing. Despite being staunchly pro-choice, I was primed to sympathize with the bill’s supporters more than ever, given my personal circumstances. I’d just moved to Ohio shortly after giving birth to my daughter in August. My husband and I are both (very differently) disabled: he, quadriplegic; me, neuroatypical (anxiety and obsessive compulsive disorders). Moreover, one of his close family members has Down syndrome. Rhetorical gestures toward “protecting” the lives of disabled individuals constitute a familiar refrain in anti-abortion justifications for legislation like SB 164, with supporters claiming to combat the systemic devaluation of the lives of people with disabilities. But the reality of how this brand of legislation uses the idea of disability to gain political traction is much more complicated. The business of birth itself is often structured around the specter of disability. My husband and I had just been made privy to this via my own pregnancy and birth experience. An early ultrasound revealed our daughter’s possible congenital lung malformation; that, coupled with my own neuroatypicality, our family history of Down syndrome and my husband’s spinal cord injury, made us an eyebrow-raising trio for every clinician we encountered over the course of my prenatal care. For six months, I dutifully shuffled into Southern California business parks for twice-weekly ultrasounds, nonstress tests and countless appointments with specialists, growing ever more anxious at the looming prospect of we-didn’t-know-what. Our daughter’s potential lung problem fully resolved on its own in utero — she was born asymptomatic at birth and has been ever since — but I remained designated as “high-risk,” the pregnancy now haunted by solemnity and fear. When I gave birth, we were ushered into a postpartum room that wasn’t wheelchair accessible. We had been promised that it would be, so my husband asked whether a piece of furniture or two meant for the birth partner could be moved so that he could fit into the corner to hold the baby. The staff member looked at him as if he’d asked whether she could spoon-feed caviar to our newborn. “No furniture can be moved from the room,” she answered, her tone one of clipped finality before her determined exit. After 30 hours of labor, I was in no mood to argue (well, not rationally), but I did very nearly laugh at the absurdity of the whole thing: We could spy on a potential abnormality for months via sound waves and some goo, but we couldn’t move a chair for a father who already existed? The juxtaposition between the high-level prenatal surveillance afforded to us on the basis of a potential disability and the lack of postpartum accommodation for our own disabilities was telling; we have plenty of cultural systems in place to avoid disability, but not many to deal with it as it already is. The abortion ban in Ohio purports to be “anti-ableist,” but in many ways, it belies the same collective anxiety about disabled futures. Anti-abortion legislation and rhetoric often circulates stereotypical, infantilizing imagery about people with cognitive disabilities as innocents in need of protection from nondisabled saviors. What’s more, many of the same proponents of bills like SB 164 are simultaneously unwilling to call out attempts by Congress and the Trump administration to dismantle the Americans With Disabilities Act. This brand of anti-abortion activism is ready and willing to use disabled populations as political pawns but is not yet equipped to imagine futures in which disabled people are autonomous individuals deserving of the full span of human rights. Abortion-rights rhetoric sometimes falls into this trap, too, resorting to familiar ableist scapegoating and fearmongering tactics like calling out the “horrors” of parenting a disabled child in a misguided attempt at defending reproductive rights. Disabled lives are often presumed to matter and treated as valuable only for the furthering of the agendas of others. The continuing debate in many states over legislation like SB 164 underscores our fraught current cultural relationship to disability: a fear-based hyperfocus on prevention, eradication and tragedy, rather than a human reality that must be accommodated in the present. Programs that aim to promote independence and autonomy — such as those addressing disabled parents’ rights, education, health care, marriage rights, financial success and equal pay for equal work — often go underfunded or unnoticed, and the higher rates of vulnerability to sexual assault and molestation for both disabled children and adults often receive little attention from either side of the political aisle. Meanwhile, legislation that aims to preserve the “sanctity” of a potential disabled life is sometimes championed as disability rights activism. Our continued failure to recognize disabled lives as inherently valuable irrespective of their relationship to nondisabled ones, even as the state of Ohio plans to coerce parents into unsupported roles as caregivers, belies a lack of cohesion as to what “disability rights activism” is and who should be at its center. As is made clear by our focus on disability as a potential reality during pregnancy even as we often fail to implement even rudimentary accommodations or attempt to secure equality for existing disabled parents and children, it remains difficult for us to visualize everyday lives in which disability is fully integrated into our cultural fabric. In public dialogue, and in our cultural imagination, there is often a “before” and an “after” to life with a disability, but not a satisfactory “now.”