For the past three years, I have spent the majority of my days moving through the world doing an impression of Donald Trump. I have coifed, combed and caressed a gravity-defying pompadour, teetered over my own midsection in a Pisa-like lean and narrowed my eyes into a leering squint. Most of the time, I did this on Comedy Central’s “The President Show,” and I hope I don’t sound too much like my avatar when I say I portray both his body and his mind with relative accuracy. I’ve studied our president’s bizarrely lyrical speech patterns and his unconsciously betraying body movements. I have learned that he is speaking with his body language as much as he is with his mouth. As you prepare to watch our 45th president deliver his first State of the Union on Tuesday night, you can refer to this primer as a means of reconciling his body language and speech patterns. It should provide insight into what the president is really saying. When the sergeant-at-arms barks our president into the House chamber, I can promise you that Mr. Trump’s mind is mostly focused on getting down the slight slope leading toward the podium. I’ve watched hundreds of hours of him managing inclines and declines and even after 70-plus years on the planet, he still struggles with that. He never seems particularly steady, and I’ll leave you to make the associations between his instability and his lack of a moral center. While most presidents take this opportunity to glad-hand members of Congress, in similar situations, Mr. Trump uses people as a hand railing. This creates a deep conflict between his desire to not fall down and his germophobic tendencies that no doubt contributes to his discomfort. This is a combination of the physical and mental. The president is obviously aware that he’s being observed, but his insecurity over his lack of total control regarding how he’s perceived translates into muttering and self-effacing glances to anyone in his line of sight. His face usually reads: “Can you believe this?,” “I hope I make it up these stairs,” “Mike, help me get up the stairs for Christ’s sake!” Mr. Trump’s instinct is to pad all experiences with a sense of pre-embarrassment so that he can exert more control if something unexpected happens. In short, the mantra behind everything he does is, “I meant to do that!” This was the first and most important physical trait I perfected in playing Mr. Trump. He pitches forward on the balls of his feet, his hands curled and locked at his waist. It is his most relaxed standing position. If you place him in a church with a choir, his lean turns into something resembling swaying — he’ll move back and forth to the music with marionette arms lifelessly swinging somewhat like pig carcasses in a meat freezer. The most likely time to see the Trump Lean™ is right before he’s announced into the chamber, or before he turns to stand at the lectern. Donald Trump doesn’t like to turn his head. Instead, he turns his entire upper body and shoulders, leaning his head forward like a pigeon eyeing stale bread crust. He obviously wants to stabilize himself at the lectern for fear of falling over, and his rigid upper body is like that of a litigious courtroom charlatan strapped in a neck brace checking to see if people believe him. President Trump reads from a teleprompter in the cadence of a grandmother reading “Goodnight Moon.” He rarely seems familiar with the material. If he likes a line or idea in the speech, he’ll take a moment to repeat it and savor it — it’s as if he’s hearing it for the first time, because it’s the first time he’s reading it. Like Bugs Bunny conducting an orchestra, Mr. Trump conducts many of his statements too. The open palm is a plea to his audience to connect with his plight. The O.K. symbol is reserved for telling specific lies. The thumbs-up-moving-into-a-flat-palm is used to cover dead space — either during cheering or when he’s interrupted by protesters. Many liberal analysts have interpreted the president’s wandering speech patterns as a sign of dementia or stupidity, or even as some sort of folksy, working-class vernacular. But those views are mistaken. The president is simply speaking to himself. The audience is a bystander to this outward internal dialogue. When he discovers a particularly interesting phrase or concept, he will repeat it, building his idea in front of you. “Believe me” is part guarantee and part buttress to a falsehood. While studying Mr. Trump during the 2016 campaign, I realized that his greatest asset lay in his ability to make his story his followers’ story as well. He began nearly every rally reminding viewers that there were 17 Republican primary candidates, that he came in second in Iowa, first in New Hampshire and “beat them all.” He still repeats this from time to time. Mr. Trump hides in plain sight, saying with his body exactly what he’s going to do and how he’s going to do it. His movements are rooted in his physical insecurity. While he wears a “tough guy” mask, his movements have the quality of an old dowager who has taken the carriage into town to mix with the common people. How can this help you when you listen to him? Just remember: Every day is opposite day with the president. When he says something isn’t true, it probably is. No matter what he’s saying, his body is telling the world, “I’m pretending, I’m scared and I’m totally unprepared.”