Not everyone needed 80 minutes behind a microphone to make a statement at the State of the Union address. The Democratic Women’s Working Group wore black pantsuits, skirts and dresses. In doing so, they followed the women of Hollywood, who wore all black to the Golden Globes in honor of the Time’s Up and #MeToo movements. It was a stark contrast to what has, in the past two years, become the Democratic women’s unofficial color: white. Hillary Clinton memorably wore a white pantsuit when she became the first woman to accept the Democratic nomination for president — a nod to the suffragists, who adopted it as one of their signatures in 1913. And last February, Democratic women wore all white during Mr. Trump’s address to Congress. Yet on Tuesday, in a strange turn, it was Melania Trump who chose white — a gorgeous pantsuit by Christian Dior. Was it meant to stand out against the all-black crowd? Was it a nod to women’s rights? Or perhaps a thumb in the eye of her husband, who was recently accused of having an affair with the porn star Stormy Daniels just weeks after Mrs. Trump gave birth to their son? To judge from Melania’s face and the reports that she traveled to the speech apart from her husband, I suspect the latter. Advertisement The members of Mr. Trump’s party kept things traditional. Paul Ryan wore the classic American flag pin on his lapel and his equally classic smug face. And many Republican men wore red, white and blue ties. Democratic senators wore purple ribbons to raise awareness about the opioid epidemic. “Addiction touches all of us, and it’s time for real action to address this public health crisis,” Senator Tom Udall of New Mexico tweeted with a photo. But for my money the most powerful — and certainly most vibrant — protest was staged by members of the Congressional Black Caucus, who managed to repudiate the president’s despicable comments about Africa without uttering a word. Kente cloth is native to Ghana but is worn by black people around the globe. The patterns in striking greens, purples and oranges often represent equality, power and love. “Wearing kente cloth to the #SOTU with my fellow @OfficialCBC Members to stand in solidarity with people from you-know-what countries,” Representative Bobby Scott of Virginia tweeted, with a photo of himself in a kente tie. As the camera panned the audience of dark suits, the kente cloth, worn by some representatives as ties and by others as shawls or scarves, was impossible to miss. And when the president boasted about the record lows of Latino and African-American unemployment, a trend that began under President Barack Obama, and said, “We stand for the national anthem” (read: The black athletes who don’t stand for the anthem aren’t true Americans), members of the black caucus stared out stone-faced. Others simply looked at their phones, uninterested and unengaged. Many of these same representatives, along with other Democrats, also wore pins in honor of Recy Taylor, a black woman who was kidnapped and raped by six white men in 1944. Ms. Taylor’s attackers were never charged, and she died in December having never received justice. Ms. Taylor’s name, made famous by Oprah Winfrey’s mention of her at the Golden Globes, reminds many of the specific vulnerability of black women when it comes to sexual assault. The red pins, with “Recy” in white lettering, drove that message home on the eve of Black History Month. Notably, Senator Elizabeth Warren was business as usual in one of her signature jackets in cobalt blue. She noted after the address that she attended the speech because she wanted it “burned into” her eyes. Perhaps that blue jacket — which stood out in the sea of black — was worn to burn it into the eyes of the American people as they think about who might replace Mr. Trump at that lectern in 2022. Tariro Mzezewa (@tariro) is a staff editor for the Opinion section. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 