President Trump gave a bravura performance on Tuesday night. Among presidential speeches, the State of the Union address comes closest to the long, disjointed, episodic form of the campaign rally — the form of oratory at which he excels. So even though virtually every word of the speech is scripted, it has the shout-outs, the self-applause, the knowing smiles and mugs that this president enjoys and that allow him to engage the congressional and the television audience over a long evening. He became almost as much a conductor as a speaker, expertly cuing the soloists, as it were, a dozen or so times during the speech — surely the largest number of hero-witnesses crammed into one of these events since Ronald Reagan had the dubious idea of turning the State of the Union into a report card on the State of the People. The rhetorical flourishes in last night’s address owed much to Reagan: not merely the heroes and volunteers, but above all the business and personal tax cuts, the largest in a generation, and with them the whirring and turning of economic gears, lifting citizens (in a nice phrase) “from welfare to work, from dependence to independence, and from poverty to prosperity.” A few hard edges were smoothed away. The phrase “radical Islamic terrorism” did not appear in the speech, as it had in Mr. Trump’s Inaugural Address and his message to the joint session of Congress last year. He did not mention the news media, libel laws or Russia (except to criticize it alongside China as rivals “that challenge our interests, our economy and our values”). The phrase “America First” is gradually softening (another Reagan touch?) into putting “Americans first.” As Mr. Trump put it winningly: “I want our youth to grow up to achieve great things. I want our poor to have their chance to rise.” Some hard edges remained. It is not enough to defeat or destroy the Islamic State. The president won’t rest until we “extinguish ISIS from the face of the earth.” He understands wedge issues better than any current American politician. That side of him might be called Nixonian, except that Mr. Trump tends to be more boldfaced than tricky. His immigration plan, “bipartisan” he called it, is calculated to open up fissures on the Democratic left. The repeal of the Obamacare mandate — “an especially cruel tax” (tip of the hat to the Supreme Court!) “that fell mostly on Americans making less than $50,000 a year” — was a political masterstroke, devised by the impressive Senator Tom Cotton but quickly embraced by Mr. Trump. In crass political terms, the speech appealed to the president’s electoral base. And it threatens to enlarge that base in ways that will be threatening to Democrats in 2018 and more so in 2020. The sullen Democrats who could not bring themselves even to cheer record-low unemployment rates for black and Hispanic Americans remain perplexed by Mr. Trump. They have already denounced him as a racist. Where do they go from here? Mr. Trump counts on prosperity and national security to win over voters who are not attracted by his invocations of unity and “civic duty.” On the evidence of this speech, however, he is eyeing two other old-fashioned Republican programs, internal improvements (infrastructure) and Civil Service reform, that may help to cement a future majority. This “nation of builders” may have some political building to do, too.