It has been one year and 28 days since my last tweet. I deactivated my account shortly after President-elect Donald Trump tweeted, “North Korea just stated that it is in the final stages of developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching parts of the U.S. It won’t happen!” on Jan. 2, 2017. The tweet struck me as an unsettling portent of how Trump’s presidency was likely to unfold: rash, petty, ostentatiously uninformed, with no regard for public safety or the mechanics of governance. The internet makes neighbors of us all, and my conscience demanded I put some virtual real estate between myself and the befuddled, racist mobster seemingly determined to dismantle and loot the republic. If seeding nuclear war wasn’t a violation of Twitter’s terms of service, then Twitter wasn’t a service I wanted to endorse. Exactly one year later, on Jan. 2, 2018, President Trump tweeted, “North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un just stated that the ‘Nuclear Button is on his desk at all times.’ Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that I too have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!” How exquisite it would have been to be wrong. Trump essentially daring Kim Jong-un (just a hop, a skip, and a Pacific away from my house in Seattle) to prove his nuclear capabilities is what finally pushed me over the edge, but the cliff itself was built of years of accumulated grievances with Twitter’s culture of harassment and its leadership’s torpid failure to fix it. When you work in media, Twitter becomes part of your job. It’s where you orient yourself in “the discourse” — figure out what’s going on, what people are saying about it and, more important, what no one has said yet. In a lucky coup for Twitter’s marketing team, prevailing wisdom among media types has long held that quitting the platform could be a career killer. The illusion that Twitter visibility and professional relevance are indisputably inextricable always felt too risky to puncture. Who could afford to call that bluff and be wrong? So, we stayed, while Twitter’s endemic racist, sexist and transphobic harassment problems grew increasingly more sophisticated and organized. Those of us who complained about online abuse were consistently told — by colleagues, armchair experts and random internet strangers — that we were the problem. We were too soft. We, who literally inured ourselves to rape threats and death threats so that we could participate in public life, were called weak by people who felt persecuted by the existence of female Ghostbusters. Meanwhile, Twitter’s leadership offered us the ability to embed GIFs. Those of us who pointed out that online harassment was politically motivated — compounded by race, gender and sexual orientation — as I did in 2013, for example, were accused of being “professional victims” trying to leverage our paranoid delusions to censor the internet. This defamation has never been retracted or atoned for even after the revelations that an army of Russian Twitter bots functions as the Trump administration’s propaganda wing, and the “alt-right,” essentially a coalition of anti-feminist, white-supremacist online harassment campaigns, recruits disaffected young men to Trumpism by framing the abuse of social justice activists as a team sport. Meanwhile, Twitter’s leadership offered us 280 characters. The social contract of the internet seems to insist that there’s a nobility in weathering degradation. You can call me oversensitive, but the truth is I got far better than any human being should be at absorbing astonishing cruelty and feeling nothing. Undersensitivity was just another piece of workplace safety gear. The fact that we’ve learned to cope doesn’t mean we shouldn’t demand better. Being on Twitter felt like being in a nonconsensual BDSM relationship with the apocalypse. So, I left. To be clear, it’s not brave to quit Twitter, or righteous (I’m still on Facebook, which is just a differently shaped moral stockyard), or noteworthy. Quitting Twitter is just a thing that you can do. I mention it only because there was a time when I didn’t think it was a thing that I could do, and then I did it, and now my life is better. I’m frequently approached by colleagues, usually women, who ask me about quitting Twitter with hushed titillation, as if I’ve escaped a cult or broken a particularly seductive taboo. Well, here’s what my new life is like: I don’t wake up with a pit in my stomach every day, dreading what horrors accrued in my phone overnight. I don’t get dragged into protracted, bad-faith arguments with teenage boys about whether poor people deserve medical care, or whether putting nice guys in the friend zone is a hate crime. I don’t spend hours every week blocking and reporting trolls and screen-grabbing abuse in case it someday escalates into a credible threat. I no longer feel like my brain is trapped in a centrifuge filled with swastikas and Alex Jones’s spittle. Time is finite, and now I have more of it. At the same time, I know this conversation is more complicated than that. I’ve lost a large platform to self-promote and make professional connections, which isn’t something many writers can afford to give up (less established writers and marginalized writers most of all — in a horrid irony, the same writers disproportionately abused on Twitter). I get my news on a slight delay. I seethe at the perception that I ceded any ground to trolls trying to push me out. I will probably never persuade RuPaul to be my friend. Also, I loved Twitter. Twitter is funny and smart and validating and cathartic. It feels, when you are embroiled in it, like the place where everything is happening. (Scoff if you like, but the president of the United States makes major policy announcements there. This is the world now.) I shouldn’t have had to walk away from all that because for Twitter to take a firm stance against neo-Nazism might have cost it some incalculable sliver of profit. No one should. Sure, as in everything, global culture change would have been better. But I didn’t have global culture change, and I’m better equipped to fight for global culture change now that I’m not locked in eternal whack-a-mole with a sea of angry boy-men, an unknown percentage of which are probably robots. When you deactivate a verified Twitter account (nail-polish emoji), you have one year to log back in or your account — everything you ever tweeted, every reply in every thread — is permanently deleted. I always planned to log in and then immediately deactivate again, to re-up for another year. I figured I’d eventually reactivate, even if just for posterity. I was part of some important cultural conversations; I said some smart things before other people said them; I made some good jokes. One time the actor Michael McKean called me “doodlebug” in an affectionate manner because he liked one of my movie reviews. I wouldn’t mind preserving that. Last week I realized: I was late. I’d forgotten to log back in. A year had passed. It’s all gone. It’s like I was halfway through a difficult column and asked a thief to watch my laptop while I peed. It’s like a great wind came and blew my problem novel into the river. It’s like I ate a very good sandwich without taking a picture of it. Sometimes it is O.K. to just remember things.