CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — I’m a fan of the New England Patriots, and in the circles that I move in — liberal, underdog-loving, far from New England — that’s a bad thing to be. One hears that the team’s coach, Bill Belichick, wrote Donald Trump a commendatory letter not long before the president took office. One hears that a Make America Great Again hat was seen hanging near the locker of the quarterback Tom Brady. President Trump and Robert Kraft, the team owner, were once big buddies and may well be again. Then there’s the cheating business. A good friend of mine, a fan of the Pittsburgh Steelers (losers!), calls our coach “Bill Beli-cheat,” and he’s not alone in his distrust. Brady apparently deflates footballs to suit his taste and then, maybe, smashes up the cellphone that contains evidence of said deflation. The Patriots did illicitly videotape coaching signals from the New York Jets (super losers!) — a controversy known as “Spygate” — and they were caught and disciplined. The Patriots win all the time. That’s another reason people hate them. This will be Brady and Belichick’s eighth Super Bowl together since 2002, and they have won five of them. Only one team has won more: the (soon-to-be-matched) Steelers, with six. People don’t like a winner unless it’s their team. They prefer that everyone takes turns winning and plays nice, like in today’s schoolyard. The Patriots do not play nice; they crush you. Some people even deride the Patriots for being a “white” team, whatever that is supposed to mean. Going by the numbers, the team with the largest number of white players in the National Football League may be the Philadelphia Eagles (losers-to-be!), which will face the Patriots on Sunday in the Super Bowl. (Rosters can change week to week, which is one reason it is hard to be precise about such statistics.) So how did the Patriots get to be the “white” team? Probably because only three Patriots players are well known, and they happen to be white: Brady, the tight end Rob Gronkowski and (lagging a little in recognition) the wide receiver Danny Amendola. There’s also something corporate about the Patriots, their detractors say, and corporate America is white America — bland, unexciting — at least according to the stereotype. I used to be ambivalent about my Patriots fandom. I’d explain it with a shrug: “You know, I grew up in Boston in the 1950s and ’60s. I listened to their games on the radio when they were the Boston Patriots. My dad and I loved them.” My allegiance was mere nostalgia. My period of ambivalence is over. I’m a New England Patriots fan, full out. I care if they beat the Eagles. I want them to squash the birds into midnight-green goo. That’s right, the Eagles team color is midnight green. Ours? American red, white and blue — with a dash of silver to keep us contemporary. I love Eagles fans. At their team’s final game of the 1968 season, feeling irritable, they diverted themselves at halftime by booing Santa Claus and pelting him with snowballs. But this makes me want to crush them even more. They are passionate, and beating passionate people is way more fun than beating aloof people. Who’d want to beat the San Francisco 49ers? Their fans are almost too urbane to notice. Why have I so fully embraced the Patriots? For one thing, they are by far the smartest team in sports. Watch how they respond when they get down against an inspired opponent, as they did against the Jacksonville Jaguars in this year’s conference championship game. Early in the game, the Jaguars were rolling over us, smashing us with their defense, humiliating us with their offense. But then, at halftime, the Patriots went into the locker room and — as they always do — they figured out the opposition. They jiggered the defense; they re-aimed the offense. Suddenly the unstoppable running back Leonard Fournette was on his backside contemplating the heavens. Suddenly the quarterback Blake Bortles, who was having the game of his career in the first half, was transformed back to in the so-so game manager he has always been. And then Brady began to methodically rip the bad guys to shreds. The other reason I have so fully embraced the Patriots is their dominance. In the world of sports, I’ve become someone who likes empires. I like dynasties. I like operations that go on being great for a long time. Any team can ring the bell once. But to smack the gong again and again, that is truly something. Most people resent sports dynasties because they prefer up-and-comers. They pull for the underdog. They want David to beat Goliath. I suspect they do this because they want to think of themselves as upstarts, young and fresh and with a world of promise before them. But there comes a time when you have to look at yourself not as an up-and-comer but as someone who has arrived — at least as far as you are going to. In the same way, there comes a time to embrace teams that have arrived and are proud of it and want to stay at their best. I had a friend who was once going through some hard times: Kevin, a high-school drinking buddy, a brawler with a saintly heart. Kevin was a die-hard Boston Red Sox fan. They lost and they lost and they lost. (This was many decades before the 2000s.) And Kevin went down and down. But then one day in the 1980s, Kevin had a revelation. He looked at himself in the mirror and said: Enough is enough. Starting today, Kevin is a fan of the 22-time world champion New York Yankees. He felt a little better that day — and then slowly, over time, a little turned into a lot. He got his business together. He made some money. No matter how daunting the goal, Kevin now went for it. Did the switch of his allegiance to the Yankees have something to do with this? I think so. To back a winner, you’ve got to be willing to say you aspire to win yourself. You’re not a beginner any more, not an upstart, not a pup. You’ve maybe done a few things right in life and you’re going to try to keep doing things right — and you’re going to back a team that does the same. You’re going to get behind Yankees baseball and North Carolina college basketball and you’re going to look for a football team that wins and wins and wins. And if that’s what you’re looking for, what choice have you got? You’re going to have to become a New England Patriots fan, too.