When I was 5 years old, Sister Anne would tell us to keep our hands to ourselves. “No hitting. No hitting!” she’d say to the class, over and over, every morning. Then the bell would ring and an hour later Mr. Millison would blow a whistle and instruct us to “Hit him! Rip his head off!” over and over, every afternoon. I was conflicted. “But that’s Kevin from Sister Anne’s class.” I had to hit Kevin. This was Pee Wee football. It was the beginning of a lifetime of competing emotions related to football. With mental-health, safety and social issues mixed with national anthem protests, you’d have to be insane to not be somewhat conflicted while watching professional football these days. However, this Sunday I’ll ignore all of these pressing concerns because the team I love more than most things could win the Super Bowl for the first time. I’ll be at my favorite bar, wearing my lucky shirt, with my dad. Unless we’re losing. Then I’ll switch my shirt, my bar and my dad. Nothing’s more important than this game. Admittedly, this is wrong. I’m now well informed on how repetitive head trauma can lead to a degenerative disease in the brain known as chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E. That will not affect me Sunday. For the well-paid warriors battling on the field in Minneapolis, this game will be a continuation of a system that places money and tradition above their health and lives. For me? It’ll be pure bliss. I now have an odd complex while watching the game that raised me. During an Eagles game, I share my personal space, something I rarely do, with aggressive strangers dressed in green, screaming at the television in a crowded bar. Then after the game, my blood pressure lowers and I watch recaps and become wildly concerned for the health of players 30 years from now. In Philly, it’s easy to ignore what science seems to suggest for a few passion-filled hours. I’ll cover up my true feelings by saying things like, “That’s why they make millions.” We mask minor guilt with major passion. Before the N.F.C. championship game against the Vikings, city workers greased street poles with Crisco so that fans wouldn’t climb them in celebration or disappointment. This weekend, the city may have to grease the Art Museum Steps. I was raised in a sports household in a sports town. Nothing gave my father more joy then when the Dallas Cowboys, our rivals, were losing. He didn’t say the words “I love you” often. So to end a phone conversation, instead of saying “I love you,” I’d say, “Hey, Dad, the Cowboys are losing.” And he’d reply, “I know, son … the Cowboys are losing, too.” Two weeks ago, the Patriots’ Rob Gronkowski took a brutal helmet-to-helmet blow and got knocked out. It was pure, unadulterated violence. If I had seen this hit 25 years ago, my living room would’ve erupted with animalistic joy. But today, my family cheers, then winces when we see the replay. We try to ignore the shame boiling up inside, knowing what affect it could have on the player’s future. We say things like, “That’s a shame.” And keep watching. To prohibit defenders from behaving like assassins, referees penalize players on the field and fine them off it, but the game won’t really change. And part of me doesn’t want it to change. The chance of violence is why we tune in. In Philadelphia, we enjoy the carnage as long as it’s not on our team. If there were a chance the players’ heads would literally pop off like Rock ’Em Sock ’Em Robots’, we’d still watch. Maybe even more. We’re like spectators in the Colosseum watching gladiators in A.D. 200, saying, “If it’s not to the death, it won’t be the same sport!” I was trained since Pee Wee football to strike with precision and power. The Drexel Hill Raiders was an athletic boot camp for kids who were currently reading “Where the Wild Things Are.” We sat on our hands, keeping our legs straight and heels six inches off the ground until a fire burned away our bellies. Everyone ran laps when one kid fumbled. If you were overweight, they wrapped you in trash bags and made you run.  We had a drill where two of us would lay on our backs, helmet to helmet. Then a “coach,” who for 22 other hours a day was a carpenter, would blow a whistle. We’d scurry to our feet in fear and race to smash each other first. We’d run full speed and slam foreheads into each other until things tasted different for a few hours. Playing football, I got the wind knocked out of me about once a week for a decade. I’d lie on my back and struggle to suck in air while looking at the clouds, thinking, “As soon as this is over, I’ll finish my fruit roll-up.” Coach Millison would run on the field and kneel over me with a lit cigarette, snowing ashes all over my face. He’d pull my waist a foot off the ground to allow air back into my lungs and I’d slowly come back to life while my friends stood over me like little football angels. The game is changing and I feel bad for kids who will never know what it feels like to make a big hit or score a game-winning touchdown. Once when I was 10, both happened. I ran down the sideline and just as I approached the goal line, I was hit so hard I blacked out. I awoke on the sideline to see Coach and asked, “Did I get in?” He smiled and said: “Yeah, kiddo. You scored.” The pain disappeared as the team lifted me to the sky. On Super Bowl Sunday, if you want to discuss C.T.E., I’ll be screaming at the television in a bar, with strangers dressed in green. Regardless of the score, I just want the sport of football to know … the Cowboys are losing.