This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. If you’ve spent any time on an airplane in the last few years, you’ve probably noticed the animals. They seem to be everywhere. The number of flying animals classified in the either “service” or “emotional-support” category has more than doubled since just 2015, according to the best available statistics. And, yes, many of those animals are really just pets that their owners are masquerading as something else. My column today is about this strange phenomenon. In the last few weeks, it may have reached a turning point. I realize it’s not the most important story in the country right now, but I don’t believe we should spend 100 percent of our time thinking about Donald Trump. To me, the story of flying pets is a case study of how mass dishonesty can become acceptable, with some significant costs. As for the most important story in the country, my main takeaway from the Nunes memo is that it won’t be the last ploy of its kind. The purpose of the memo was not to make an actual argument, as others have noted. The purpose was to create distractions around a criminal investigation that threatens the Trump presidency — and appropriately threatens it. The Nunes memo gives the president’s defenders more anecdotes for the story they are already telling. The anecdotes are a combination of false, misleading and beside the point. But that doesn’t bother the president’s defenders. They’re trying to buck up each other and distract everyone else. The fact that the memo was weak is all the more reason to expect other versions of it in the future. Elsewhere: The memo is more effective as a distraction because it is both boring and hard to understand, argues Slate’s Dahlia Lithwick. The #releasethememo campaign is in some ways a repeat of the 2016 campaign, in which Russian nationals influenced American politics, with eager help from Trump’s allies, explains Molly McKew, an information-warfare expert, in Politico. “We’re as exposed and vulnerable as we ever were — if not more so,” she writes. In The Times, Renato Mariotti, Asha Rangappa, Orin Kerr and Charles Blow offer their takes on the memo’s release. Reader callout. The Times is looking to hear from readers in love with someone with opposing political views. The full Opinion report from The Times follows. Correction. I made a mistake in Friday’s newsletter by writing that the typical tipped American worker receives about $1,000 a year in tips. The correct number is about $6,700. (A Trump administration proposal would cost that typical tipped worker about $1,000 a year, according to a recent estimate.)