Gene Sharp died last week. What Sun Tzu and Clausewitz were to war, Sharp, who was 90, was to nonviolent struggle — strategist, philosopher, guru. An American academic who worked from his modest Boston home, Sharp studied and cataloged examples of nonviolent resistance, looking at why they succeeded or failed. His most influential work was “From Dictatorship to Democracy,” a pamphlet written for Burma’s opposition in 1993. It has been translated into dozens of languages — often clandestinely — and became a handbook for civic resistance movements around the world. (Much of Sharp’s writing is available free on the website of his organization, the Albert Einstein Institute.) Sharp is best known as a strategist for movements in the most dire circumstances — those trying to create political change when there is no institutional path. But his ideas have shaped civic protest movements in the United States and other democracies, and they contain some surprising advice for the resistance to President Trump. First, here’s a brief summary of what Sharp taught the world: Nonviolence is usually the most effective strategy for winning power.  When Sharp began studying the history of nonviolence, it was seen — and dismissed — as a tactic used by saints and pacifists: sitting in front of bulldozers, appealing to the consciences of men with none. Sharp’s major contribution was to demonstrate that nonviolent struggle is not only effective, it’s superior to armed struggle in most circumstances. Nonviolent action is not an appeal to a dictator’s conscience. It is a war, but fought without arms. Research studies support this point. As a way to topple dictators, nonviolent struggle has double the success rate of violent resistance. And the bigger the role played by mass nonviolent resistance, the freer the country and the more durable the freedom that emerge. Every leader, no matter how despotic, relies on the consent of his people.  If they withdraw their consent — stop carrying out orders — the regime falls. Some groups are vital pillars of governing regimes — typically the police, the military, political officials and wealthy businessmen. They can also be labor unions, farmers, older people, young people. The job of the resistance is to pull out these pillars from supporting the dictator. Some examples: International sanctions target a dictatorship’s important officials and civilian friends — and try to persuade them they would be richer under a different government. In Birmingham, Ala., in 1963, the civil rights movement boycotted downtown stores owned by politically influential backers of the city’s segregationist policies, turning them into opponents of those laws. In Serbia, old people provided the critical support for Slobodan Milosevic, who relied on nationalism to keep himself in power after starting four Balkan wars. During his re-election campaign in 2000, the resistance group Otpor figured out how to turn this constituency against him. It had young people provoke the government into jailing them and calling them spies and traitors. This got many a Grandma angry. People have more power than they think. But they are often trapped by their perception of helplessness. “One must strengthen the oppressed population themselves in their determination, self-confidence and resistance skills,” he wrote in “From Dictatorship to Democracy.” Nonviolent protest involves more than walking around with a sign.  Sharp’s first work, “The Politics of Nonviolent Action,” a three-volume series published in 1973, lists 198 tactics that movements use. Marches and parades are just two. The other 196 include holding mock awards ceremonies, staying home from work, skywriting, rude gestures, suspending sports matches, performing guerrilla theater, staging work slowdowns — even withholding sex. The list, of course, does not include tweeting and liking posts on Facebook. It is nevertheless still a thought-provoking source of ideas. (The liberal group MoveOn.org recently use a form of skywriting: It hired a plane to fly a banner over the districts of three California members of Congress during the debate over Trumpcare..) What can the resistance to Trump make of Sharp’s ideas? Don’t just work through institutions. Work around them. The civic protest groups formed since the 2016 election have two goals. Some aim to win elections in 2018. Others aim to influence the vote of members of Congress now. That’s the major work of the several thousand Indivisible groups around the country, for example. This is straightforward. “The best impact is to use the power of local groups and nonviolent movements to exert pressure in the ways the system was designed to receive pressure,” said Elizabeth Beavers, who covers foreign policy issues for Indivisible. Indivisible modeled its tactics on those of the Tea Party, and they are smart ones: Go in person to see your own member of Congress. Focus on the issue he or she will vote on next. Sharp calls this “haunting officials” — No. 31 on his list. “This is  pulling out the pillars,” said Ben Wikler, the Washington director of MoveOn.org. There is no more important pillar holding up the Trump administration than Congressional Republicans. And the way to pull them away from Trump is to demonstrate that their support for his agenda threatens their re-election. But the strategy has had only limited success. Most members of Congress need not worry about the general election, in part thanks to gerrymandering. But they do worry about a primary challenge — and Trump remains very popular among Republican primary voters. Sharp, of course, didn’t focus on how to use institutional structures, because dictatorships, by definition, don’t have them. He wrote about how to work outside institutions by building mass social movements. Is that relevant to the United States today? Unlike most of Sharp’s eager readers abroad, Americans have plenty of established avenues for citizens to take power. We just don’t use them. Americans don’t do activism. We don’t even vote (turnout was 61.4 percent in 2016). Eric Liu, author of “You’re More Powerful Than You Think,” makes the point that there’s no such thing as not voting. If you don’t bother, you are handing your power over to someone else — most likely wealthy, white and older people, who reliably turn out. The challenge for any movement in the United States is to get people involved. And one way to do that is to build social movements. Activism begets activism. “Ask who got involved and started a group through the Women’s March,” said Paul Engler, who with his brother, Mark, wrote “This Is an Uprising.” “A huge portion of activists will raise their hands,” Engler said. “Most people aren’t activated by phone calling. But protests generate more and more energy.” People won’t march every week, however. Nor should they. Marches should be saved for extraordinary circumstances. Unfortunately, we may be facing one soon: the slow-motion assault by Trump and his allies on the Robert Mueller investigation — a Saturday Night Massacre by drip poisoning. MoveOn.org (together with other groups) is asking people to sign a pledge to march if Trump fires Mueller, replaces Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, or does something else that disables the investigation. It’s smart to pre-organize times and routes, and to warn the administration there will be mass resistance — although the vast majority of people who will march are unlikely to sign up in advance. A social movement demonstrates commitment and numbers, adding power to the insider strategy. It can produce momentum — or the illusion of it — keeping the resistance and its issues in the news. Perhaps most important, it builds habits of participation. “The opposition has recently shifted to focus on the midterm elections,” said Jamila Raqib, Sharp’s closest colleague and the executive director of the Albert Einstein Institute. “My reading of Gene’s work is that this is perhaps a missed opportunity” — the wrong use of this unique moment’s energy. “A lot of people are recognizing they have a role to play in our democracy. This is an opportunity for us all to figure out what that role is to get through this crisis — and the next one.” That requires more than the sporadic march. Fortunately, Sharp has 196 other ideas. Diversify and decentralize. People get involved, and stay involved, if they feel useful, competent and valued. Otpor in Serbia recognized this. The group’s leadership decided that people could do anything and call themselves Otpor if they followed two rules. “If you were anti-Milosevic and nonviolent, you could go naked with ‘Otpor’ painted on your chest,” said Milja Jovanovic, an Otpor founder. Mark Engler said that Act Up, formerly known as the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power, used this strategy well: “They had a lot of little working groups, which enabled them to be creative.” Its activists draped a giant condom over the house of their nemesis, Senator Jesse Helms. They chained themselves to the New York Stock Exchange to protest the high price of the AIDS drug AZT. Act Up was always doing something — usually something outrageous and highly photogenic. “That had a huge role in elevating public awareness about AIDS and keeping it in the public eye and forcing politicians who didn’t want to touch the issue to respond,” Engler said. Act locally.  “Trump is such an attention magnet,” said Wikler of MoveOn.org. “He’s drawn a lot of focus and fear and anxiety toward Washington. But there’s an extraordinary wave of activism across the country.” Wikler’s recommendation — the recommendation of everyone I spoke to — was for people to get involved in whatever they cared about. Raise money for the local library or bail fund. Speak out for MeToo or Black Lives Matter. Form a reading group or a walking group. Effective political action isn’t innate. You have to learn it — and it starts with connecting with your neighbors. “Movements that have been successful paid attention to that institution building and capacity building,” said Raqib. “In our context, it’s how do we move people from this sense of apathy or helplessness.” Sharp’s fundamental takeaway, Wikler said, “is that people power can overcome what seems like intractable odds.” He added: “Not that it always happens — but it can happen and does happen. In the moment when political power is almost entirely concentrated in hands of people willing to do things that seem ghastly to the majority of Americans, a reminder that public mobilization has overcome even greater odds is a light in the darkness.”