This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. But first, a few words on falling stocks. Journalists are sometimes too reluctant to admit what they don’t know. And on most days, no one knows exactly why the stock market is rising or falling. So my advice is to view much of the commentary on the recent stock drop with skepticism. Maybe stocks have fallen because traders are worried the global economy is slowing down. Or maybe they’re worried it is heating up and sparking inflation. Maybe President Trump’s erraticism is finally worrying markets. Or maybe none of the above — and stocks have fallen because of what Paul Krugman calls “a pure self-fulfilling panic.” Paul’s column is on the stock market this morning. I also offered some further thoughts on Nicolle Wallace’s MSNBC show yesterday. Packing and cracking. Yesterday was a bad day for gerrymandering, which means it was a good day for American democracy. Thanks to a Supreme Court order (which let stand a state-court ruling), Pennsylvania now seems likely to have a new congressional map in time for this year’s midterm elections. That map could help Democrats win a few extra House seats. More important, it could make the state’s congressional delegation more accurately reflect the will of the voters. It helps to go back a few years to understand what’s happened in Pennsylvania. In the 2012 congressional elections, the Democratic candidates won a narrow majority of votes — just over 50 percent across the state’s 18 House districts, compared with 49 percent for the Republican candidates. As their reward for winning more votes, however, the Democratic candidates won only five of the 18 House seats. That’s the brutal math of gerrymandering, in which 50-plus percent of the popular vote can equal 28 percent of political power. The disconnect was deliberate, of course. Having won the governor’s office and control of the state legislature in 2010, Republicans were able to redraw the congressional maps following the 2010 Census. They used the usual tools of partisan redistricting — like “packing” and “cracking” (here’s a glossary) — to their advantage. It’s important to note that both parties have abused gerrymandering in recent years. Democrats have done so in Illinois and Maryland. Republicans have done so in Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Ohio and Wisconsin, among other places. Republicans have been able to do more gerrymandering mostly because they control more state governments — not because Democrats are above gerrymandering. But I think that this shared blame should make the problem easier to address. In some states, less gerrymandering would benefit Democrats. In other states, it would benefit Republicans. In almost all states, less gerrymandering would make the electoral system fairer. It wouldn’t solve all of our political problems, or anywhere close to all of them, but it would represent progress worthy of celebration. Next up in Pennsylvania: Either the state legislature or the courts will draw a new map. Next up nationwide (and even more consequential): The Supreme Court is likely to issue rulings on cases from Maryland, North Carolina and Wisconsin, which could eventually affect the entire country. It probably won’t be in time for this year’s elections, though. If you want to dive in and read one long piece on the issue, I recommend Emily Bazelon’s in The Times Magazine, focused on Wisconsin. To understand how gerrymandering is likely to affect the 2018 elections, Nate Cohn and Dave Wasserman — who are both active on Twitter — are probably the best guides. Playing the autocrat. Trump called Democrats “un-American” and “treasonous” yesterday for not clapping for him during the State of the Union. “The charge that members of the other party are un-American or treasonous,” responded the conservative writer Bill Kristol, “is disgraceful enough that anyone in his own party who doesn’t denounce Trump for this shares in the disgrace.” Irony alert. Alongside the digital version of my column yesterday on the scam of “emotional-support animals,” some readers pointed out that they saw an advertisement for a company that helps people register — yep — an “emotional-support animal.” “Want to fly with your pet for free?” the ad asks. You can see a version of it in this tweet. “The ad language basically admits this is a fraud!” as the journalist Ed Johnson noted.