In Germany, everybody has his own Martin Luther. Our view on the monk whose 95 Theses redefined Christianity 500 years ago depends on any number of variables: where you grew up (north or south, or East or West Germany), for example, and whether your parents were Communists. Luther is probably more interesting today than while he was alive. The Luther who translated the Bible and reformed the corrupt Catholic Church is the Luther Germans are proud of. For some, Luther is a brave man who challenged the powerful. For others, he’s a spiritual leader whose ideas changed the world forever. There is also the fugitive Luther, the one who spent years hiding in the Wartburg, a fortress in southeast Germany. And there’s a darker side of Luther, the Luther who hated Jews, the Luther we don’t like. We had to make a decision: Who, exactly, is our Luther? And can we boil him down to three minutes of film? It might have to do with our personal backgrounds in this country that we chose to talk about the Luther who invented freedom. We were able to get at the core of Luther’s concept of spirituality, which was all arranged around his idea of freedom. In the 16th century, God was an angry and punishing God, someone people feared more than anything else — especially because they were too weak to follow his commandments. And this is where Luther comes in: Studying the Bible, he found something that uncovered the truth of who and what God really is. Luther conceived the idea of grace and concluded: Everybody can be saved! All you need is your own spiritual access to the idea of God and a strong belief. And by translating the Bible so that it could be read by the public, that is what Luther did: He set us free. If people could understand God by themselves without a mediator, they would be free to make up their own minds. Spiritually free. So, inner belief was born, and with it a new way to defy external authorities. Luther demonstrated such defiance himself, challenging the pope and the emperor. In the end, Luther didn’t bring us the freedom we know today. His contributions did not include political freedom. But freeing the minds of the people was a good start.