It has been over six years since I last floated in zero gravity through the tunnel that connects the space shuttle to the International Space Station. I visited this orbiting laboratory on four occasions between 2001 and 2011.  Every time I approached the station, I was in awe of its complexity and its beauty. But more than anything, I was in awe of the fact that we had the nerve to even attempt to build something of this magnitude. It was the United States that led the international coalition of 16 nations to build the space station. Constructing this outpost in outer space took dozens of missions spanning well over a decade to complete, and considerable money. It is clearly one of the more complicated engineering projects humans have undertaken. It’s not perfect and it’s not designed to last forever, but what the International Space Station offers humans and nations is remarkable: an important opportunity to collaborate on shared scientific goals, mostly free from politics and almost entirely free from the influences of our planet. In the years since I left NASA, the space station has started to experience a surge in commercial activity. Two companies, SpaceX and Orbital ATK, now regularly deliver cargo to the station. Just this week, SpaceX launched the Falcon 9 Heavy, a rocket powerful enough to lift 141,000-pound payloads. And after a few years’ hiatus, crew members will once again leave American soil for space and make their way to the space station as soon as next year, courtesy of Boeing and SpaceX. There’s more: The aerospace company Sierra Nevada is planning to deliver cargo in the near future. And Bigelow Aerospace has visions of private customers paying to visit the space station, staying overnight in an attached inflatable module built by the company — a hotel in space. The Center for the Advancement of Science in Space, a nongovernmental organization, now manages commercial science for the space station. And as the cost of access to low earth orbit continues to decline, more opportunities for commerce in space will emerge, with the International Space Station at the nexus and the United States at the helm. But all of this will come to a screeching halt (though you won’t hear the “screech” in the vacuum of space) if the Trump administration ends funding for the International Space Station program beyond 2024, a step it is considering. The reasons are unclear, though President Trump has said that he wants to prioritize human travel to the moon. Whatever the priorities, this sort of trade-off is shortsighted. Cutting funding for the station, now between $3 billion and $4 billion a year, would be a step backward for the space agency and certainly not in the best interest of the country. Over the past year, the United States abandoned its leadership position on the global stage in many ways. We stopped leading the effort to combat climate change. We stopped leading on trade and commerce, and raised questions about our continued commitment to multilateral organizations and military alliances. We stopped leading on human rights and the rule of law. If we fail to continue funding the International Space Station, America will sacrifice its rank as the global leader in space exploration and commercial space innovation. NASA programs have benefited the people of our planet since the founding of the agency in 1958. Solar technology, miniaturized computer chips, CT scans and M.R.I.s are just a few examples of the technologies that were developed and delivered to the American consumer as a result of NASA’s innovation. Because of our country’s leadership, we benefited first and we benefited the most. Much more than any other country, in fact. Funding scientific research is one of the most productive ways to put taxpayers’ dollars to work. It not only creates jobs but also creates industries that otherwise would never exist. It’s easy to see how a dollar spent on our space program is returned to the taxpayer many times over. Budgeting is about making tough choices, but to abandon one of our most successful and innovative endeavors — one in which we are the global leader — just as it is clearly transitioning to a hub of commercial activity would be extremely shortsighted. Other countries will undoubtedly fill the void left by American withdrawal — most notably China and Russia, countries we consider significant rivals. Not only would they reap the economic and political benefits of leading in space but they also could change the direction of the world’s collective space endeavors in a way inimical to American interests and values. If we want our nation to continue leading in space, fully funding NASA’s existing programs is absolutely essential. And if we want to some day send astronauts back to the moon or to Mars, we need to fund those efforts as well. It might seem costly in the short term, but the return is well worth the investment.