Companies are wrestling with how to allocate the windfall from the recent tax act. It’s a nice problem to have. Home Depot, JetBlue and Pfizer have announced plans to pass tax savings on to shareholders through stock buybacks. Apple, AT&T, Comcast, Verizon and Walt Disney are distributing one-time bonuses to their employees. BNY Mellon, FedEx and JPMorgan Chase are raising wages. Walmart and US Bancorp are giving bonuses and raising wages. Boeing, Southwest Airlines and Wells Fargo have increased their charitable donations. And a few companies, perhaps fewer than the White House expected, have joined with Amazon to announce ambitious programs of capital investment that will create jobs and increase productivity. Neglected in the public discussion is yet another strategy, with large potential benefits for every company and for the nation as a whole: investing in human capital. Lost in the noise was Boeing’s announcement that it will spend $100 million on work force development, training and education, and Disney’s investment of $50 million to cover tuition payments for its hourly employees. Until recently, most corporate training programs focused on communicating company policies, building the company’s “culture” and complying with legal mandates to provide instruction on sexual harassment, nondiscrimination and industry-specific regulatory requirements. Company leaders and promising younger executives were often given access to high-quality executive education programs. But most employees looking to upgrade their skills and qualifications had to go back to school. Those who remained on the job while attending classes part time could get up to $5,250 annually in tax-free tuition reimbursement from their employer. Most large companies have maintained such programs for decades, but less than 1 percent of the work force participates. Today, thanks to online technology, there has been stunning improvement in both the quantity and quality of learning opportunities available to employees. The largest platforms offer thousands of courses from more than 200 of the world’s best universities, as well as state-of-the-art content from top technology companies. Many Fortune 500 companies are testing the use of such courses to develop the skills of their employees, and a few have begun large-scale deployment, offering customized courses to help employees gain competency in emerging fields such as big data, machine learning, deep learning and the internet of things. Less esoteric subjects — like digital marketing, project management, and managing people and teams — have also proved popular among employers. These courses typically cost less than 10 percent of what it would cost to take the same courses in a face-to-face, on-campus setting. The need to invest in people has never been more pressing. Technology is both destroying and creating jobs, and with the advent of artificial intelligence and ever more powerful computational capacity to process almost unimaginably large data sets from millions of interconnected devices, the pace of creative destruction is likely to accelerate. McKinsey, the management consulting firm, estimates that roughly half of all jobs in the United States are at risk of automation in the next 20 years. If the country is to remain competitive, it needs to invest in people to ensure that the high-skill jobs remain here. Jobs requiring computing and data science skills are likely to be the 21st-century equivalent of mid-20th-century factory jobs — the backbone of a prosperous middle class. LinkedIn reports that the “hard skills” most in demand today are cloud computing, statistical analysis and data mining, and a variety of software-development skills, involving middleware, web architecture, user interface, control systems and mobile development. There is even larger demand for more basic computing skills: office software and information-technology support. AT&T has been a prominent leader in this effort. It sponsors a low-cost online master’s degree in computer science from Georgia Tech’s outstanding school of computing and offers a wide variety of online courses to retrain its thousands of employees who work in jobs that will become obsolete, such as landline installation and repair. The revolution in work-force development is still in its infancy, but already some farsighted companies are providing online training beyond their employee population. Microsoft is offering a suite of courses on the edX platform to train users of its products, from office workers who use Word, Excel and PowerPoint to software developers who want to write apps for the Azure Cloud. And just last month, Google and Coursera  introduced a program leading to certification as an I.T. support specialist. This effort is aimed at high school and community college graduates and provides not only training but also direct access to participating employers with available entry-level I.T. jobs. The tax cut has given companies an opportunity to invest in the future. So, to America’s chief executives: Don’t spend it all on buybacks and bonuses. Invest in plants, equipment and research. But the best investment you can make with that money is in your people.