Most American workers this month will see their take-home pay go up, some a little and a few quite a bit, as the new tax act takes effect and less money is withheld for federal income taxes. But for many, the gift will be short-lived. Because the law was rushed and written in a partisan frenzy, withholding may not be accurate and you might owe money to the I.R.S. next year. You might even be advised to file new forms so that more money is withheld — and then the forms and withholding amounts are likely to change again later in the year and then again every year thereafter as the cuts for individuals head toward expiration. This messy uncertainty, not abstractions like an increase in the federal deficit, will be the lived experience of Trump economic policy for most American households. It might seem like just a bureaucratic complication, but this episode could point progressives toward a persuasive economic message, one that reflects the economic realities of the middle class and the striving of people in struggling small communities as well as those in tech-driven metropolises. It’s the experience of the scam economy, where nothing is certain and anything gained might disappear without warning. It’s an economy where risk is shifted onto individuals and families, financial predators lurk behind every robocall and pop-up ad, work schedules are changed without notice and Americans have endless choices about savings, education, health care and other needs but very little clear guidance about how to make those choices wisely or safely. Since the 2016 election, Democrats have looked for an economic story and policy that would speak to the frustrations of Trump voters — even while recognizing that more nuanced analysis shows that “economic anxiety” wasn’t driving most of Mr. Trump’s well-off supporters — without losing their own base. While the headline economic statistics like gross domestic product, low unemployment, wages on a slow but steady upward path have been healthy, other indicators like stagnating wages, Gilded Age levels of inequality, and communities and older industries that have been left behind together create an obligation to think ambitiously beyond the assumptions of Clinton- and Obama-era economics. This overdue introspection has brought several new or revived ideas to the fore: universal basic income, especially popular in Silicon Valley, or a federal jobs guarantee, an idea last heard in the 1970s, revived by the Center for American Progress last May. And perhaps most promising, a new focus on economic concentration and the failure of antitrust enforcement, which has allowed a few behemoth companies, including the tech giants, to wield economic and political power at the expense of consumers and workers alike. These good ideas don’t directly touch the immediate experience of most Americans in the real economy of 2018. What is near universal and tangible is the daily experience of uncertainty and risk, in a world in which economic choices are complicated, predators and scammers are everywhere, and government policy under Mr. Trump seems to move in the direction of making choices ever more complex and risky, while removing protections for consumers and workers. What government does at its best, from the New Deal forward, has been to provide some certainty and predictability: that what you earned would be yours, that what you saved would be there for you and that you wouldn’t have to bear all the risk on your own. Today, Americans’ private retirement savings are often eroded by unnecessary fees, aggressive stock trading and the need to borrow against those savings for emergencies. Higher education is still a path to security for most, but deceptive programs and heavy loan burdens often leave young adults worse off, burdened by debt and a sense of failure. In between school and retirement, jobs are ever more uncertain, with fewer employers providing pensions or health insurance, work schedules too unpredictable for child care and a shift toward “gig economy” jobs that provide not even day-to-day security. Some families, perhaps the top 20 percent, have some ability to absorb these risks. But for the vast majority, there are major setbacks around every corner. Mr. Trump and Congress have done nothing to alleviate those anxieties and, especially in higher education, the financial industry and health care, have worsened them. By contrast, Social Security and bank deposit insurance, while very different New Deal policies, all served the goal of security. They don’t interfere with the free market — they just give people a bit of confidence in navigating it. The Affordable Care Act expanded this social contract, enabling people to share risk rather than taking it all on themselves. The policies of the Trump-Ryan coalition weaken that confidence in three ways. The carelessness about policy, exemplified by the frantic process that led to the withholding mess, is the least important of the three. Specific policies also deliberately shift risk toward individuals: Consider the rules in the new tax act that encourage pass-through businesses, which will lead employers to convert employees into independent contractors, costing them protections such as unemployment insurance and health care. A proposal for paid family leave recently floated by Ivanka Trump and Senator Marco Rubio takes the policy of “give with one hand, take away with the other” to an absurd extreme: New parents could pay for leave from their future Social Security payments, trading a week of paid leave for a week of retirement benefits, as if people could make a rational, informed choice between needs that will typically fall 40 years apart in the life cycle. Finally, this administration has eagerly taken down the guardrails intended to protect individuals from the worst predators: the “fiduciary rule,” which had required investment advisers to act in the interest of their clients; the hard-fought rules that protect students from worthless for-profit colleges and student loans they can’t repay; and even the recent Labor Department rule requiring that employees receive the tips that are intended for them. Virtually every enforcement action of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has been put on hold or canceled — even the investigation of the Equifax hack that disclosed the financial records of millions of people — exposing all of us to even more scams and tricks. These rules are particularly vulnerable because they are recent — newer regulations are easier to reverse. They’re recent because it was only in the third through last years of the Obama administration, once the urgency of the economic crisis of the late 2000s had receded, that the administration seemed to see reining in the scam economy as a defining goal and the new rules of the Dodd-Frank Act, including the powers of the C.F.P.B., were finally put into place. But the problem in political terms was that these pieces were not knitted into a big theme. Each action was in its own policy universe: student loans, investor protection, worker rights. Giving people some security from the scam economy is never going to involve one big program or idea, like universal basic income or single-payer health care. It will always involve dozens of policies, even to replace the dozens that are currently being dismantled. But together they add up to a big theme, ensuring that people who pursue education, work hard and try to save for the future have some assurance that they will be able to navigate a complex and quickly changing economic climate. Progressives should give it a name, because it connects with the experience of every American outside of the very wealthy.