This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. First, if you’re trying to make sense of the stock market, I discuss its gyrations on the new episode of the Slate Political Gabfest, with Emily Bazelon, John Dickerson and David Plotz.  Census ‘sabotage.’ “It is hard to exaggerate the importance of a successful decennial census for municipalities across our nation,” reads the first sentence of a letter sent to the Trump administration yesterday by a bipartisan group of 161 mayors. The census is a more important part of national life than many people realize. It determines how many congressional representatives each state gets and helps determine how federal funding is distributed. Census data are also vital to many businesses and academic researchers. Unfortunately, there is reason to worry that the Trump administration is trying to use the 2020 census for partisan aims — to help Republicans’ political fortunes. Doing so would break with decades of precedent, across both parties. William Galvin, the Massachusetts secretary of state, warned this week of possible “sabotaging,” saying that the administration “intends to politicize this process.” In their letter, the mayors all but pleaded with the administration to change tack on the census: “Please take it seriously,” as Kriston Capps of CityLab summarized the letter. What are the specific concerns? They start with management issues. “There are two related threats to the coming decennial census: budget mismanagement and a leadership vacuum,” write Diane Schanzenbach of Northwestern University and Michael Strain of the American Enterprise Institute, in Bloomberg View. Counting every person in the country isn’t cheap, and the census appears to have been underfunded by about $230 million over the last two years, Schanzenbach and Strain explain. The U.S. Census Bureau also lacks a director. Politico reported late last year that the Trump administration might name Thomas Brunell as deputy director. That post does not require Senate confirmation. Appointing a deputy without a director seems a ploy to have the bureau’s leader avoid scrutiny. And it’s obvious why the administration might want to avoid scrutiny of Brunell. He has no management experience and a history of strongly partisan views. He would be a sharp contrast to previous leaders. Finally, there are the methodology decisions the administration has made or is considering. It said this week it would begin counting troops stationed overseas as residing on their U.S. military base — rather than at their home addresses. Doing so would likely boost the population of conservative states — and, by extension, the size of their House delegations. The administration is also considering adding a question about citizenship status. Doing so, many observers believe, could cause immigrants — fearful of being deported — to avoid census researchers, thus reducing the official population of blue states. “Such a question,” the mayors wrote in their letter, “would increase the burden on respondents, likely heighten privacy concerns around the census, and lower participation by immigrants who fear the government will use this information to harm them and their families.” The census isn’t as riveting a story as government shutdowns or White House chaos. But it may be even more important.