Indianapolis — In Indiana, a 17-year-old can deliver a baby and then give a doctor permission to circumcise him. But during her delivery, she can’t give the doctors permission to give her an epidural. She needs her parents to consent to that, and they can refuse. The 17-year-old can consent to her infant’s hearing testing, vaccines and anything else the baby might need. But she cannot consent to a long-acting, reversible contraceptive — such as an IUD or an arm implant — to prevent her from getting pregnant again. Once again, she needs her parents’ permission, and if her parents aren’t around, she’s out of luck. According to a report released this month by the Guttmacher Institute, 24 states do not explicitly give all minors the right to receive contraceptives without their parents’ permission. Minors in 11 states still do not have the right to consent to contraception even after giving birth. There are situations where a minor can consent — if married, legally emancipated or on active military duty, or after a sexual assault by a family member — but these apply to only a small minority of teenage mothers. For many years now Americans have been celebrating the decline in teenage pregnancy rates. But the general trend obscures some more alarming statistics. Data from a 2005 study show that of the adolescents who do get pregnant, up to 44 percent will conceive again within a year. A local study of teenage pregnancies in Indianapolis found that 1 in 3 adolescents who delivered between 2010 and 2012 were pregnant again in less than 18 months. These “rapid repeat pregnancies” are not just emotionally, physically and financially draining for the mothers. They are also dangerous. The babies are at increased risk for preterm birth, low birth weight and even autism spectrum disorder. The 2005 study found that the risk of preterm delivery or stillbirth tripled  in the women’s subsequent pregnancies. This is why numerous organizations, including the American Academy of Pediatrics, recommend that women wait at least 18 months after giving birth before getting pregnant again. To do this, women need birth control, and studies show that a long-acting contraceptive, inserted while the mother is still in the hospital, is by far the most effective form. One study found that placing a long-acting, reversible contraceptive in adolescent mothers before they were discharged from the hospital reduced their chances of having a rapid repeat pregnancy to less than 3 percent from almost 19 percent. This is a remarkably effective intervention, and it’s no surprise that all major medical organizations (including the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology) now recommend it as a first-line form of birth control for adolescents. It should be up to a young mother to decide whether she wants it. But the requirement for parental consent has become a significant barrier to obtaining it. Because the laws in these states don’t explicitly give young mothers the right to decide for themselves, doctors — wary of lawsuits — inevitably err on the side of caution. As a result they must get a parent’s signature and place the device within the 48- to 72-hour hospital stay. If the parent refuses or simply isn’t around to provide a signature, the young mother must leave with a less-effective form of birth control (or nothing at all). Make no mistake — this places her at substantially increased odds of quickly becoming pregnant again. Births to adolescents are expensive to our society, costing taxpayers an estimated $9.4 billion in 2010 to cover increased health care and foster care, as well as the lost tax revenue that results from the lower incomes and higher incarceration rates of children born to teenage parents. Knowing that close to 20 percent of births to adolescents are a result of repeat pregnancies, it’s imperative that we remove barriers to better family planning. Even if you disagree with these arguments, it’s hard to remain silent about a minor’s inability to consent to prenatal and pregnancy-related care. There have been cases of adolescent mothers’ parents refusing them pain relief during delivery because they want to teach the girls a lesson. Obstetricians are left in the position of having to treat them without providing the pain relief they would offer to any other laboring patient. In an ideal world, all women would be permitted to make decisions about how and when they get pregnant. But once a woman is pregnant, regardless of her age, she can no longer be treated like a child. We need to treat her like a mother and allow her to be as responsible for herself as we demand she be for her child.