Congress is now considering long-overdue legislation that authorizes faster access to internationally stored electronic data needed to prosecute serious crime and disrupt terrorist plots in the United States, Britain and elsewhere. The legislation, the Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data Act, or Cloud Act, would preserve law and order, advance the United States’ leadership in cybersecurity, ease restrictions on American businesses and enhance privacy standards globally. This is a priority for both of our governments. American efforts to investigate crime and terrorism are increasingly impeded by a lack of access to data stored outside the country, even when it is held by companies subject to United States jurisdiction. Britain and other allied foreign governments face similar problems. All too often, officials in one country investigating a serious crime with victims in that very same country cannot get data they need simply because it is on a server halfway across the world. The internet is moving fast, and our legal constructs are not keeping up. This leaves tech companies in the difficult position of having to withhold information that could protect public safety. To make matters worse, a case at the United States Supreme Court could leave our governments and others with no effective way to obtain vital evidence of serious crimes. Oral arguments are scheduled for Feb. 27 in that case, which asks whether Microsoft may comply with a United States warrant to disclose information related to an American crime stored on a cloud server in Ireland. Microsoft argues that it cannot. Fortunately, there is a legislative solution to this problem that advances a model that empowers law enforcement. The Republican senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Orrin Hatch of Utah, the Democratic senators Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island and Chris Coons of Delaware, and members of the House have proposed legislation that would clarify the legal authority of the United States to obtain data stored in another country, and would authorize special agreements to resolve potential conflicts of law. The bill would authorize the attorney general to enter into such agreements, but only with allies that respect privacy and protect civil liberties, and that have records of promoting and defending due process. The first one would be with Britain, which already has the authority to enter into such a pact. These agreements would not apply to foreign judicial orders directed at American citizens, or anyone in the United States, for that matter. Instead, the bill would promote swift justice among nations that share a common commitment to the rule of law, while protecting the privacy and safety of our citizens. The prime minister has stressed the great importance of the legislation to British authorities investigating criminal and terrorist activity. One of us, Paddy McGuinness, has testified before both houses of Congress to make the case for this change. President Trump adopted this priority upon taking office as part of his call for lawful access to information. In addition to improved law enforcement, this model advances American leadership in cybersecurity. American and British innovation created the internet, and United States-based companies dominate the online landscape. With that central role in the internet comes a responsibility to work with partners that share our values to support their safety and security. Any nation motivated to enter into an agreement with the United States will have to meet American standards of due process and ensure a commitment to the rule of law, not authoritarian whim. Some have argued that it is improper for the United States government to assert the authority to compel disclosure of data stored abroad. But Britain is one of many nations that already asserts this authority. The proposed law would not only put the United States on a par with these other nations but would also do so on its terms. Others argue the bill unwisely provides the American and British governments new powers to obtain private information. The reality is that courts in both governments already have the authority to compel a service provider to comply with a warrant, and we have a longstanding, but slow, treaty process for enforcing cross-border warrants. The Cloud Act considers these issues and provides thoughtful and swifter solutions. Neither government will issue a warrant without judicial approval. American businesses have indicated they support this legislation. Just ask companies like Microsoft, Google, Apple and Facebook. If foreign governments cannot gain access to data they need for legitimate law enforcement purposes, some countries may penalize American companies or require them to store data within their territory. Such data localization, as it is known, is costly for companies and may undermine privacy by requiring data storage in countries without due-process protections. We can build an international system in which rights-respecting countries can have access to the data they need to investigate serious crimes regardless of where companies choose to store it. This legislation is the first step. The authority is critical. With it, law enforcement officials in the United States, Britain and other countries with similar due-process standards would be empowered to investigate people suspected of terrorism and serious crimes like murder, human trafficking and the sexual abuse of children, regardless of where the suspects’ data happens to be stored. Obtaining access to overseas data held by companies subject to our jurisdiction is entirely consistent with our treaty obligations and international norms. With this legislation, our countries can meet these longstanding obligations, and meet them faster. The longer it takes to address this problem, the more our mutual public safety and national security will be undermined by the current legal obstacles to disclosure of data across borders.