This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. I’m occasionally going to use this newsletter to update readers about the situation in Puerto Rico, because I think it’s important to keep the crisis there fresh in our minds. There isn’t nearly enough political pressure on the federal government to help the people of Puerto Rico. The basics. Almost five months after Hurricane Maria hit the island, about 25 percent of residents still lack electrical power. The official death toll is only 64, but The Times has estimated that the real number may be 1,052. Thousands of Puerto Ricans have left the island for Florida, and experts estimate that as many as 300,000 more could leave if significant rebuilding doesn’t take place. Without wholesale rebuilding, “the island is likely to find itself back in the same place after the next big storm,” Mekela Panditharatne, an environmental lawyer, wrote in an op-ed this week. Anxiety and depression have surged among the island’s residents. (For more on the brewing mental-health crisis, listen to Caitlin Dickerson on “The Daily” podcast.) Government failures. The federal response has been plagued by mistakes, waste and apparent cronyism. An Atlanta company with a single employee and a spotty record received a $156 million contract to deliver 30 million freeze-dried meals to the island, for example. The company delivered only 50,000. And boxes of food and water stockpiled in a government office in Florida were infested by rats, Bianca Padró Ocasio of The Orlando Sentinel reported last week. As for the cronyism: Whitefish Energy — a Montana-based company with personal ties to Ryan Zinke, Trump’s interior secretary — received a $300 million contract last year to restore power. Whitefish employed only two full-time employees on the day Maria made landfall. The Puerto Rican government terminated the contract after its questionable terms prompted investigations. Looking ahead. To stay up to date on Puerto Rico’s progress, I recommend following The Tampa Bay Times, The Orlando Sentinel and Patricia Mazzei, The Times’s Miami bureau chief. If you want to do something to help, my colleague Nick Kristof suggests donating to the Children’s Health Fund or the Hispanic Federation. In September, The Times’s Niraj Chokshi recommended several other charities. In other news. Democrats’ strong overall performance in special elections has continued this week. Last night, the party won a Florida legislative seat in a district that President Trump had won in 2016. Democrats also continued to show signs of progress in Oklahoma. But there have also been signs of how much work Democrats have to do to take back Congress. The party fared even worse in a Georgia district last night than it had in 2016, a reminder of how strong Republicans remain in the Deep South. And on Monday, Democrats failed to flip a winnable Minnesota statehouse seat, largely because of mediocre turnout from their base.