BAYAMÓN, P.R. — The experience never leaves a combat medic: the sight, the smell, the touch of flowing blood. The mutilated limbs. The moment of watching, helpless, as life turns to death. Fifty years later, the memories still trickle into my soul, as if through an IV tube as I wait, wounded, for evac from a Vietnam clearing. Back in 1967 in my birthplace, Puerto Rico, I had no idea what I was in for when I chose to enlist, rather than be drafted. I had wanted to become a doctor, but couldn’t afford the tuition. Recruiters promised me training in health sciences, and the Army kept that promise — barely. After training in Texas to be a field paramedic or hospital assistant, I treated clinic patients for a week. That was it. My orders to Vietnam had arrived. A supply sergeant issued me a .45-caliber pistol. Four weeks later, in June, I was in Danang. I was to be a combat medic for the First Squadron, First Cavalry, First Armored Division. Nobody trained me in using the pistol, but I didn’t expect to need it, since I would just be keeping wounded soldiers alive. Advertisement That was naïve. In earlier wars, field medics wore a bright red cross on their helmets and didn’t carry weapons. But Vietnam’s jungles and small-unit ambushes made that cross a bull’s-eye for snipers. So it was dropped and replaced by a sidearm. A week into my assignment I learned through the grapevine a terrible truth: Medics in Vietnam were expected to endure six hard months in the field. A battle-tested sergeant advised me: Take good care of us and we’ll take care of you. Other medics confirmed that if I survived six months of gore I might be rotated to a field hospital at a big base — showers, three hot meals a day, passes to town, tiki bars at China Beach. Until then, though, I would be in one of the hottest war zones, supporting troops on search-and-destroy missions, as well as supply convoys along the lethal north-south Colonial Route 1. Long before us, the French military had named it the “Street Without Joy.” With reason. In Chu Lai, a Marine air base on that road that served as our home, I joined three field medics: Wayne Freeman, Eddie Dickson and Simon Britts. We essentially lived inside a medical armored personnel carrier, roaming embattled central Vietnam behind mechanized infantry units, tending and evacuating their wounded and dead. The first five weeks were easy, spent guarding the perimeters of hilltop firebases and base camps. It was safe, except for frequent artillery barrages. There were even opportunities to go into villages to offer citizens simple health care, an activity the brass thought might help win hearts and minds. Occasionally we went on long, platoon-size tank patrols in search of guerrilla units hiding in remote villages or secret camps within the jungles of the Annamite Cordillera foothills. We didn’t find many, but it gave us a feel of the land, its odors, sounds and perils. The rice paddies reeked of stagnant water, the jungles of humus and raw vegetation. Every now and then a sniper targeted us, or a forward infantry unit fell into a small-arms ambush; we’d patch light wounds from bullets or booby traps. Even so, the jungle’s stillness and the absence of heavy battle lulled us into thinking the war wasn’t as bad as advertised. But it was. As summer passed, the small guerrilla skirmishes were winding down, but well-trained regular combat veterans of the North Vietnamese Army were secretly infiltrating the central coastlands, preparing for the coming Tet offensive. By autumn, heavy fighting was breaking out in Chu Lai and Tam Ky, two key coastal centers of the war. In the First Armored Division, now part of the 23rd Infantry Division, commonly known as the Americal Division, combat medics were called into action every day because the fighting was now constant and bloody, with the enemy firing heavy mortars, rocket grenades and powerful machine guns. When the foot soldiers left their vehicles to fight, we would wait just outside the battle in our personnel carrier until called to scramble in ourselves, under fire, treat the wounded where they’d fallen, then get them the hell out of there. Advertisement Our job now was to tend multiple gunshot wounds, apply tourniquets to the stumps of legs amputated by mines, and bandage shrapnel-mutilated bodies. Mortars fell near our armored personnel carrier. Bullets zinged around us and ricocheted from helicopter fuselages as we loaded the wounded into them. Death became a daily reality, as we zipped our fallen comrades into body bags. On two occasions, two of our medics were wounded by shrapnel as we drove close to the big firefights. By October, we had to park so deep in the combat zones that more medics would inevitably become casualties too. Before the fighting got really hot, aspects of being a field medic had felt strangely magical. We were our own bosses. We slept in our vehicle on bloodstained stretchers among boxes of medicine and munitions. We listened to rock music on the way to small battles. No haircuts or polished boots. Shave or don’t shave. Bathe in rivers. Just take meticulous care of the grunts. They would come to us for a Darvon pain pill or foot rot powder, or simply to share a cigarette or a warm beer with the “docs.” We gave lidocaine for itching groins, tetanus shots, and emulsions for head lice and crabs. We scolded them for not taking their anti-malaria pills. We reprimanded them for bad hygiene, too much pot smoking, or carelessness at a village brothel. We were their “male moms.” The camaraderie beguiled me, especially as a Hispanic man. Many of the soldiers were from the Deep South and couldn’t understand why a guy from a Caribbean paradise would volunteer for the Army. They laughed at my accented English, but they warmed to the rum I carried in my duffel bag. They gave bro-hugs when I treated them. Sometimes they faked a malady. When we declared them fit for battle, they bore silent grudges — until the next firefight. Rank mattered little. During and after combat, the officers, sergeants and privates consulted and consoled one another. Of course, with the intimacy came broken rules — as when an infantry sergeant ordered me into a tunnel hole to see if a guerrilla was lurking. I protested that I was a medic, but he insisted. Luckily, the lair was empty. Another time, a green lieutenant saw us giving plasma to a wounded Vietcong suspect. He ordered me not to “waste” medical supplies on the enemy. But at Fort Sam Houston I had been taught that in combat, a medic could override an officer in any lifesaving situation. I paid no heed to his order. The court-martial he threatened me with never materialized. When I enlisted, I was no peacenik. But what I experienced during those first five months washed away any ignorance about the degradations of war. Advertisement I cannot forget the many times we would arrive in a village with tanks, shows of force and Zippo lighters with which to torch humble peasants’ homes. I can still see a sad old farmer, kneeling and crying in his trampled rice field, broken seedlings in his hands. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. I remember a monsoon rain during which we had only two litters with which to carry the bodies of a half-dozen of our dead buddies to the nearest chopper landing zone. With time short, we resorted to dragging bodies unceremoniously through the thickening mud — a scene of horror that disturbs me even now. These had been my brothers in combat. What would their kin have felt, watching this? I never did get to enjoy the pleasures at the bases in Danang, Nha Trang, Cam Ranh Bay or even Saigon. About five months after arriving — just weeks from the anticipated end of regular combat danger for me — we were accompanying a sweep against North Vietnamese troops in a thin 43-mile-long strip of land we called Cigar Island, just north of Chu Lai. As fighting grew intense at a remote fishing village called Binh Thinh, a rocket grenade slammed into our waiting armored personnel carrier, splintering its side into shrapnel that tore apart my right leg. All four of us medics were wounded, leaving the entire troop without their “docs.” Some 25 infantrymen and tankers died that day. So that was how I would leave combat duty: in an evac helicopter, stoned out on morphine, bleeding half to death with a shattered leg wrapped in bloodied bandages. My fellow medic Simon Britts had applied them during the battle, even though he was wounded himself and we were still under fire. He was put in for a Silver Star for bravery, but never received it. The paperwork was lost. Later, as I lay on a gurney in a trauma surgery room, my pistol fell from my pocket to the floor. It shocked the surgeon and nurses, and caught a chaplain’s attention. He came over and prayed with a hand on my head, and I assumed this was last rites. Then he said: “You’ll be O.K., son. You’re in good hands now.” I could only hope he was referring to my surgeons, not the Almighty. One operating room after another followed until I reached Walter Reed Medical Center, for a year of rehabilitation. I was there in 1968 when the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated and riots broke out in Washington. Soldiers were told to stay on the hospital grounds, because Vietnam vets were not much appreciated by Americans who had turned against the war. The war had taught me to despise all firearms. After basic training, the only time I ever pointed and fired one was on a trip back to Vietnam in 2004 to help make a documentary film about a veteran — me — returning to the war theater. At a shooting gallery for tourists, I fired an AK-47 into a dirt wall. Advertisement That journey awoke memories. The film crew rambled in a van from Hanoi south to the Mekong Delta, stopping where I had soldiered. The Vietnamese were friendly and forgiving. The bus driver, a former North Vietnamese artillery colonel, said: “No one won or lost the American war. We all simply did what was required of us at the time.” And then we reached Binh Thinh. I began narrating the attack in which I was wounded. Suddenly, I began salivating and my mind shut down. I sat on the sand and cried. In a flashback, I conjured the dead and the wounded of that savage day. Unexpected flashbacks still haunt me. In a restaurant I can go into stress if I smell a rare steak oozing blood. In a movie theater, I can suddenly imagine the stench of gunpowder and cordite in the air. Fifteen Army medics received the Medal of Honor during the Vietnam War, most posthumously. According to the website 1st Cav Medic, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial wall lists 2,096 Army medics and Navy corpsmen, our naval and Marine equivalent, who died or were missing in action. Thousands of others like myself were wounded, all in a war I now consider pointless. A war that remains with me. Rafael Matos, a former reporter for The Associated Press and a digital media professor, is the author of “Sai Gon Song” a multimedia novel about Vietnam. Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 