With all the noise coming out of Washington, it’s been easy to forget about the Supreme Court. The court has been very quiet: during a recess of nearly four weeks, only the peripatetic Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg has made news, of a sort. But once the justices get back to business on Friday, that interlude of near invisibility will end. On the agenda for their closed-door meeting Friday morning is an urgent and highly unusual request from the Trump administration for the court’s intervention in the continuing debate over the fate of nearly 800,000 “Dreamers,” the young people brought to this country by their undocumented parents. They have been shielded from deportation since 2012 by the Obama administration’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy, which President Trump wants to phase out beginning less than three weeks from now. Blocked by a lower court from carrying out that plan, the administration seeks to vault over the normal appellate process, asking the Supreme Court for prompt relief from what Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco calls an “institutional injury to the United States.” The justices’ response — which may come as early as Monday — will tell us more clearly than anything since Inauguration Day what stance the rule-bound court is prepared to take toward the norm-breaking president. Will the Roberts court serve as Donald Trump’s enabler? Or will the court see itself, as it has on rare occasions at other troubled times in the country’s history, as a firewall between the president and the rule of law? With its overheated language and repeated reference to “the ongoing violation of federal law by more than half a million people,” the petition the administration filed last month reads not so much as a legal document but as a recruiting brochure, aimed at a very small but immensely powerful audience of nine. In freezing the DACA program in place last month while lawsuits against its termination proceed, Judge William Alsup of Federal District Court in San Francisco ruled that the plaintiffs, who include individual DACA recipients, the University of California, and a group of states and California counties, were likely to succeed on their claim that the order to terminate DACA was “arbitrary and capricious” and therefore violated the Administrative Procedure Act. (On Tuesday, a second federal district judge, Nicholas G. Garaufis, in Brooklyn, issued a similar ruling. Cases are also pending in the federal courts of Maryland, Virginia, Florida and the District of Columbia.) Because Judge Alsup sits in San Francisco, any appeal would go to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. That’s President Trump’s least favorite court, the court that rejected the his bans on immigrants from predominantly Muslim countries, including the current version that is now before the Supreme Court. The morning after Judge Alsup’s ruling, the president tweeted: “It just shows everyone how broken and unfair our Court System is when the opposing sides in a case (such as DACA) always come to the 9th Circuit and almost always win before being reversed by higher courts.” So while filing an appeal to the Ninth Circuit, the administration’s lawyers also went to the Supreme Court with a “petition for a writ of certiorari before judgment,” a request to the justices to hear the case this spring without waiting. The Supreme Court’s rules reserve this court-jumping procedure for cases of “imperative public importance.” Only a handful of cases has cleared that bar, including the Nixon tapes case, which effectively forced the president’s resignation and the 1981 case that ratified the agreement that ended the Iran hostage crisis. Invoking those cases, Solicitor General Francisco insists to the court that “that standard has been met here,” an assertion the plaintiffs vigorously dispute. Saying so doesn’t make it so, and in fact the odds of a rebuff from the Supreme Court are so good as to raise the question of why the president’s legal team doesn’t devote its energy to the Ninth Circuit, which has agreed to hear the appeal on an expedited schedule. Beyond the president’s grudge against the appeals court, I think the answer lies in a more subtle effort to demonize Judge Alsup and through him, the growing number of federal district judges who are pushing back against the administration across a range of issues. The petition sends a message that Judge Alsup — a highly respected veteran of 17 years on the bench — and by extension, the others, are so out of line that the country can’t afford to wait for a normal appeal to run its course. And if the Supreme Court doesn’t take the bait — well, that just shows that the justices are part of the problem. It’s no wonder that in the hall of mirrors that passes for the Trump administration’s legal policy shop, this case, U.S. Department of Homeland Security v. Regents of the University of California, looms large. Judge Alsup and, most recently, Judge Garaufis in Brooklyn, have called the president’s hand. Their analysis is a subtle one. Judge Alsup suggests, and Judge Garaufis says explicitly, that the president has the legal right to terminate the DACA program if he does so properly. What was improper about the order issued in September by the acting secretary of homeland security to wind DACA down in six months? Judge Alsup observed that the administration based its action not on a policy judgment, which might have rendered the termination unreviewable in court, but on a “mistake of law.” The judge noted that President Trump had repeatedly said and tweeted that he liked the Dreamers and wanted to help them. These statements left Attorney General Jeff Sessions and other die hard anti-immigrant presidential advisers with a problem. Disabled by the president himself from an all-out attack on DACA on policy grounds, they had to come up with another rationale for ending the program. What they came up with was something called “litigation risk.” It turned out that Texas and allied states, which had successfully gone to court to stop the Obama administration from expanding the DACA program to include more than four million parents of DACA-eligible children, had conveniently offered to sue to undo DACA itself. This lawsuit would succeed because the program was in fact illegal, Attorney General Sessions declared in a memo aimed at providing a seeming law-based, and therefore neutral, justification for ending the program. But that “pithy conclusion” of illegality was not the attorney general’s to reach, Judge Alsup said in his opinion, explaining that “determining illegality is a quintessential role of the courts.” He said the current DACA program and the earlier proposed expansion that the lower courts had invalidated were sufficiently distinct as to make improper a simple extrapolation from one to the other. The judge labeled the “litigation risk” explanation a “post hoc rationalization” — an explanation made up after the fact to fit a desired outcome. “Courts, of course, may not accept post hoc rationalizations for agency action,” he said. At the least, he added, when the government “abruptly changes course and terminates a program on which so many people rely,” the Administrative Procedure Act “requires a more detailed justification.” The injunction Judge Alsup issued is nationwide in scope. “Our country has a strong interest in the uniform application of immigration law,” he said, adding that limiting the injunction to individual states or plaintiffs would “simply provoke many thousands of individual lawsuits all over the country.” Even if the justices find Judge Alsup’s analysis questionable and the case surpassingly important, there is an obvious reason for the court to stay its hand: the possibility, however remote, of congressional action during the months it would surely take the court to issue a decision. Recruited to a walk-on role in the other branches’ drama, the justices could well find themselves exposed on an empty stage. At least this is how it looks to me, from the outside. Will it look that way from inside the justices’ private conference? I don’t know, but I’m sure of this: The future of more than the Dreamers is at stake.