The scene was both sickeningly familiar and shockingly new — seven bodies, riddled with bullets, sprawled on the floor of a garage on Chicago’s North Side. As Americans today grow increasingly numb to persistent mass shootings, such a crime now might not even make the front pages. But on Feb. 14, 1929, Chicagoans were appalled enough to give it an enduring name — “the St. Valentine’s Day Massacre” — and it remains a powerful example of how to check gun violence with proactive reform. Ninety years ago, Americans felt as helpless to stop the slaughter as many do today. Chicagoans had seen gang killings before, in the bootleg battles that brought Al Capone to power, and they knew the drill. The police would issue indignant statements and roust a few gangsters, but no one would be arrested, much less prosecuted or convicted. Soon enough, just like today, it would all happen again. Yet the scale of this crime prompted a different response. Newspapers nationwide printed photos of the carnage, forcing Americans to consider the costs of Prohibition. Many had seen Capone, whose organization was behind the killing, as a folk hero — a self-made millionaire, giving the people what they wanted. But he soon picked up a new and enduring nickname: “Public Enemy No. 1.” Still, the causes of the massacre went beyond a single mobster. Other cities had speakeasies and bootleggers without open warfare. What made Chicago different were the longstanding alliances between government and gangsters. The massacre, observed The Chicago Tribune, was “the culmination of the use of criminals by politicians and of politicians by criminals. This mutuality of service and profit made twins of politics and crime.” Chicago’s buffoonish mayor, William Hale Thompson — known as “Big Bill the Builder” for his penchant for putting his name on building projects — made no secret of his partnership with Capone. His administration gave free rein to the carnival of corruption that paralyzed local law enforcement, even, in some cases, turning cops into bootleggers’ hired hands. Into this consequence-free environment stepped gangsters with a new tool: the Thompson submachine gun. One of the first portable and fully automatic firearms, the “Tommy gun” was a weapon of war that missed its moment, produced too late to serve in World War I. Its manufacturer, facing ruin, tried to market the gun as a self-defense weapon, aided by the fact that the Thompson was so novel the law had yet to catch up with it. In those days, Chicagoans could buy a Tommy gun more easily than they could a handgun. The Thompson found eager buyers among the criminal class, who appreciated its lethality and the ease with which it could be concealed. Like today’s AR-15, the Tommy gun enabled many of the era’s most heinous crimes — from the murder of a Chicago prosecutor, William McSwiggin, in 1926 to the killing of four lawmen in what became known as the “Kansas City Massacre” of 1933. But while the Thompson empowered gangsters to kill more people more quickly, it hadn’t created this crime wave — it had merely amplified it. Solving the problem required addressing its root causes, and the private sector took the initiative. Spurred on by the St. Valentine’s Day Massacre, wealthy Chicagoans hired Col. Calvin Goddard, a pioneer of forensic ballistics, to help solve the crime. Goddard successfully matched the bullets found at the scene to two Tommy guns confiscated from one of Capone’s killers, in one of the earliest uses of ballistics evidence in American history. Police across the country now had a new investigative tool that has since become standard practice. Other elite Chicagoans, giving up on paralyzed local government, pressured President Herbert Hoover for help. He responded by sending federal agents, who effected Capone’s conviction for income tax evasion in 1931. That same year, voters ousted Mayor Thompson in favor of a reform candidate, Anton Cermak. The new mayor stayed friendly with certain gangsters — Chicago would only clean up so far — but Big Bill Thompson’s wide-open town had begun to quiet down. The city fathers behind these efforts were not acting selflessly. They saw how Chicago’s reputation for gangsterism and violence scared off business and harmed their own interests. Public outrage forced them to act, because they couldn’t afford inaction. The economic incentives for cleaning up the city had grown stronger than the corrupt ties protecting Capone. In 1932, Americans chose a new president, Franklin D. Roosevelt, who supported ending Prohibition. Once in office, Roosevelt pursued a “war on crime” that included the first federal gun control law in American history: the National Firearms Act of 1934, specifically intended to keep the Tommy gun out of private hands. Denied a private market, the Thompson would fulfill its intended purpose by accompanying GI.s onto the battlefields of World War II. Five years after the St. Valentine’s Day Massacre, America’s law enforcement landscape had transformed. Capone was in prison, Congress had targeted the Tommy gun, and the “G-men” of the F.B.I. were fighting crime scientifically. Partly in response to the massacre, all levels of government had made it harder to commit and get away with murder, while eliminating some underlying causes of gang violence — beginning with Prohibition itself. We should be ashamed that the killing of criminals 90 years ago could help spur such change, while the repeated slaughter of children prompts little more than “thoughts and prayers” from lawmakers today. The story of the St. Valentine’s Day Massacre shows how public outrage can create meaningful reform when the political and economic costs of inaction outweigh the inertia preserving the status quo.