Ever since I took my first turns on a snowy golf course on Cape Cod, my life has revolved and evolved around snow. As a professional snowboarder, I’ve ridden the steepest mountains in the world and spent weeks outside on foot-powered expeditions. Today I live in Truckee, a mountain town tucked into California’s Sierra Nevada, where I share my love of mountains with my wife and children. When we watch the Olympics, it still makes me joyous, but these days I also feel a little wistful. As the world celebrates the achievements of athletes gliding over, down and across snow, I’ve been reflecting on what I see in the mountains and for the future of these very Games. And for good reason. A team of researchers led by scientists at the University of Waterloo has found that if global emissions of greenhouse gases are not significantly reduced, only eight of the 21 cities that have hosted the Winter Olympics will be cold enough to reliably do so again by the end of this century. Closer to home, the snowpack in the Sierra is at just 14 percent of the historical average. I never imagined I would see this in the middle of February. But I guess I shouldn’t be surprised. The past three years were the hottest ever measured since record-keeping began in 1880, with 2016 ranking No. 1, followed by 2015 and 2017, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Scientists are warning us that the winter is becoming  shorter. First freezes are starting later. So when I look at my children, I am even more convinced that we must take immediate and aggressive action on climate if we want their generation to learn these sports and enjoy winters in the mountains. More important, we must act quickly to preserve the culture and economies that depend on winter and snow. A report to be released this month by the group Protect Our Winters, which I founded, shows that tens of thousands of jobs are at stake in mountain towns as our climate warms. In total, the 191,000 jobs supported by snow sports in the 2015-16 winter season generated $6.9 billion in wages, while adding $11.3 billion in economic value to the national economy. While a big snow season’s economic boost is helpful, research shows that low snow years are disproportionately devastating, causing a combined annual revenue loss of $1 billion and 17,400 fewer jobs. These mountain towns are also the training grounds for American Olympians. All you have to do is watch the downhill race at Pyeongchang to know that snow-sports athletes don’t just sit on their hands when faced with obstacles. That’s why thousands of professional athletes, outdoor industry leaders, people who live in the mountains and those who live to ski and ride are joining forces. In person, through social media, in the streets and on Capitol Hill, we are letting our representatives know that believing in job creation and local economies means stepping up on legislation that supports renewable energy and places a price on carbon dioxide emissions. About 20 million people participate in winter sports every year. And many of them vote. Senators in states with vital mountain economies love to talk about jobs. These people include Senators Cory Gardner of Colorado and Dean Heller of Nevada, both Republicans, along with representatives of congressional districts that include mountain towns, like Greg Walden of Oregon, Scott Tipton and Mike Coffman of Colorado, and my district’s representative, Tom McClintock — Republicans as well. But when the time comes to choose, these elected officials vote for legislation that will increase greenhouse gas emissions while ignoring the real threat to jobs in their own backyards — climate change. (Senator Gardner has a lifetime voting score from the League of Conservation Voters of 11 percent; Senator Heller’s score is 13 percent. The top score among the representatives was 9 percent.) The fossil fuel economy that they are voting to subsidize at substantial expense, both financial and environmental, won’t last, and the sooner we move to renewable energy technologies, the better off we’ll be. Our mountain economies still have a fighting chance, and we will fight for them.