MONTEVERDE, Costa Rica — “It’s catastrophic. There really are no words.” I read that statement from the Broward County sheriff, Scott Israel, on the morning after Ash Wednesday — and Valentine’s Day — on a computer screen more than a thousand miles from Parkland, Fla., in a rented house on a mountainside in Costa Rica. On that day, my 19-year-old daughter came home from the Quaker school where she is living out a gap year, and before she or I had heard the awful news, said: “Oh, yeah, I almost forgot. The president of Costa Rica visited the school today. It was after Meeting.” On Wednesday mornings, the school gathers in silence for 45 minutes. It is an open Meeting, so there’s a scattering of the old among the young. In our seven months here, I’ve attended a handful of Wednesday Meetings. Those moved to speak, even the smallest, say their words in either Spanish or English. A bilingual student from the upper grades is always assigned to translate. The youngest, kindergartners and first graders, come for only a short time. Those in the grades just above are given Play-Doh — something to do with their hands. The older students have “little siblings.” My daughter has my wife’s magnetism for kids, and so she often has her little sib sitting on her lap and a small group of girls around her. This Wednesday, she sat with a small gaggle of girls as President Luis Guillermo Solís, who had arrived as a special guest just after the meeting, spoke to the children, wearing his hiking clothes. He’d come to inspect the roads that had been damaged by Tropical Storm Nate and had apparently hiked a bit in the Monteverde Cloud Forest Biological Reserve. The children sang him a song they all know by heart. “Paz y libertad,” they sang. “Para los niños de todo el mundo/queremos paz y libertad.” For the children of all the world, we want peace and freedom. They also sang their wish to end hunger and war. While these children sang, took selfies and posed for a group picture with their outgoing president, a massacre was happening at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland. The song’s lyrics, cranked through the machine of the American media and entering the ears of those shaped by it, might be dismissed by some as the unrealistic garble of the left or lauded by others as what a former president once called “the audacity of hope.” This is not simple. These are children parroting this country’s ideals and the ideals of the Quaker community that is providing them, at a price paid by their parents, a private education. This is not a commercial for Costa Rica. In this very town in 2005, a bank robbery that turned into a hostage crisis left nine people dead. This country has its problems too. But since I’m returning to the United States in a few months, I want to believe that a vast majority of my fellow citizens would try to hear the words sung by the children as something free from any political leaning. That the song and the example of this small country, with its commitment to peace, the preservation of nature, and law and order of a kind quite different from one promoting the idea that each of us carry a gun, might give them some solace in a difficult time. Mr. Solís is a politician and of course spoke of politics — he assured the assembly that in the coming run-off election, which will take place on Easter Sunday, they will be in good hands regardless of the outcome. But he spoke of the children, too, and of the resillience of this community. Whether we like it or not, there are probably too many words. But I think when Sheriff Israel made his statement, it was partly an appeal to us to listen to one another or listen, for a time, to nothing at all. To observe silence. If I’ve learned anything in living among the Quakers of Costa Rica, it is that intentional and focused dwelling in quiet is a space at once empty and rich with possibility, for both individuals and communities. At moments like this, listening to one another is perhaps our only hope for avoiding catastrophes like this one, where in the aftermath, there really are no words.