Many years ago, when dinosaurs roamed the earth and some Republicans still talked sense, the Reagan administration pursued a policy of tax cuts and military buildup even as the Fed was tightening monetary policy to fight inflation. This policy mix bore some obvious resemblance to Trumponomics. And two things happened at more or less the same time: for the first time ever, the U.S. began running large peacetime full-employment budget deficits, and we began running large, sustained trade deficits. At the time, Martin Feldstein famously linked the two, calling them “twin deficits.” While this oversimplified matters – in the late 1990s we ran both budget surpluses and trade deficits, thanks to booming investment – the logic made sense. Fiscal stimulus directly raised trade deficits by boosting overall spending, and the fiscal-monetary collision raised interest rates, pushing up the dollar and shifting spending from U.S. to foreign goods. Now the always interesting Brad Setser suggests that a similar story might be unfolding now, with tax cuts feeding a rising trade deficit – an irony given Trump’s obsession with trade deficits as the root of all economic evil. His post is well worth a read, but I have a few suggestions/modifications to make. One is simply to note that so far we’ve seen only modest increases in interest rates and no rise at all in the dollar. So this doesn’t look much like Reaganomics yet. Maybe it’s still something that will happen; or maybe the Trump tax cuts won’t deliver much fiscal stimulus, just pile up in retained earnings or get used for stock buybacks that don’t do much for consumer spending. Or maybe, as Setser implicitly suggests, we need to do a “but for”: but for the tax cut other factors, like the very real strengthening in the European economy, would be driving the dollar sharply lower. Meanwhile, I’m trying to make sense of Setser’s remarks on investment income. He writes: The U.S. now has a large stock of external debt, so a higher nominal interest rate in the U.S. mechanically leads to higher interest payments on that external debt (interest payments are big part of the income balance in the current account, along with the dividend income on foreign direct investment). The United States’ external debt has quietly increased to about 50 percent of GDP, so a 1 percentage point increase in the nominal interest rate translates into half a percentage point of GDP increase in the amount of interest the U.S. will need to pay to the world. OK, I’m not quite sure which external debt number he’s referring to. The U.S. net international investment position is about -44 percent of GDP. Our gross liabilities are far larger, about 170 percent of GDP, with the debt component of those liabilities around 70 percent. Any interest effect should come on the gross liabilities, so I think it’s bigger than he suggests. And there are two more points. First, while foreigners now have a lot of equity in the U.S., we’re still something of a hedge fund among nations: we owe debt in dollars, and hold assets that are effectively in foreign currencies. This has the peculiar consequence that, unlike what happens with most debtor nations, any rise in the dollar worsens our net investment position: liabilities rise along with our currency, assets don’t. This also means that a rising dollar tends to have a negative effect on our investment income balance, quite aside from interest rates, because the income of U.S. corporations overseas becomes worth less in dollars. Second, while many of our overseas liabilities are debt, there’s a lot of equity there too – so much that Rosenthal estimates that about 35 percent of the corporate tax cut will go to foreigners. That’s another significant hit to the balance on investment income. So are we looking at an era of Trumpian twin deficits? Yes, probably. But the channels will be a bit different from those of the Reagan era.