President Trump just took an unusual step for a Republican: He included a paid family leave plan in his newly released budget. But don’t get too excited. It’s a retread of the one that he already trotted out during the campaign. It would offer six weeks off at a small fraction of someone’s pay, exclude people who need to care for family members who aren’t babies and rely on the unemployment insurance system, an already distressed program. He might do well to instead follow his daughter’s lead. Ivanka Trump has now teamed up with Senator Marco Rubio on a far more interesting plan. They’ve gotten behind a blueprint put forward by the conservative Independent Women’s Forum that would use the Social Security system instead. New parents could draw benefits for 12 weeks; when they get old, they would then have to delay their retirement by enough time to cover the cost. The women’s forum estimates this would push retirement back by six weeks. This plan also has a number of significant flaws. But it is a hair’s breadth away from something meaningful and doable — if only Mr. Rubio and Ms. Trump could think just a bit bigger. As proposed, the Rubio-Trump plan ignores the needs of the vast majority of people who require time off. About three-quarters of people taking unpaid time off under the Family and Medical Leave Act do it to recover from their own injuries or illnesses or to care for family members other than infants. None of them could get paid leave. It also, perversely, places the largest burden on the low-income people who are most likely to need a federal paid leave program in the first place. American employers are free to provide paid leave for their employees, but by and large it’s the ones paying the most that do it. Six percent of those earning the lowest wages are offered paid family leave. But low-income people are more likely to rely almost entirely on Social Security in old age. Their wealthier peers have 401(k)’s or other investments to act as cushions during the weeks they would have to forgo Social Security. Low-wage workers are also more likely to be in physically demanding jobs that make it difficult to push back their retirements at all. Mr. Rubio’s plan also penalizes families for having more children — each additional leave would mean another delay in retirement — and continues to view the problem of how to juggle work and child rearing as a private concern instead of a collective issue in need of a collective solution. But for all its flaws, Mr. Rubio’s new venture could begin to carve out a path toward something meaningful. He just needs to get over the idea of making people pay for their own benefits and expand the scope of his ambitions. Mr. Rubio claims that he can only put forward this plan, in all its imperfections, because he’s being practical. “Remember my goal isn’t the ‘perfect’ plan, it’s 60 votes for law better than status quo,” he tweeted in response to criticism of his proposal. “New taxes, new mandate or new entitlement won’t pass.” But there is no more ridiculous time to be making that argument. Republicans, including Mr. Rubio, just voted for a tax bill that violates both of those rules, adding to the deficit and eventually raising taxes on some families. Then they passed a big spending package, too. So Republicans just offered ample evidence that they don’t actually care about paying for the things they want. If we agree that people deserve income when they need to take family leave, and that adding to the deficit doesn’t matter when the goals are worthy, then we can focus on putting together the right solution. Mr. Rubio and Ms. Trump should drop their worries about cost and expand their vision. They could pledge to offer Americans 12 paid weeks off not just for the arrival of a new child, but also if they fall sick or need to care for a family member. They could nix the idea that parents have to pay for their own benefits out of Social Security. If doing so raises concerns about Social Security’s solvency — which are often overblown — then they could levy a small tax on employers and employees, similar to what we already pay to fund Social Security, to build up a new fund for family leave. That would not just spread the burden to rich and poor alike, but it would also reinforce the idea that we all have a stake in helping parents raise the next generation. Mr. Rubio and Ms. Trump wouldn’t even have to start from scratch. Democratic lawmakers have already repeatedly introduced a bill that would do all of these very things: the Family Act. Whether they think so or not, Mr. Rubio and Ms. Trump are lighting the way toward an effective system of paid family leave a quarter-century after we enacted unpaid leave during the first Clinton administration. Their plan, if passed as is, would penalize those least able to shoulder an extra burden. But it offers plenty of openings to make changes, both now and in the future. Right now, we’re the only industrialized country that doesn’t guarantee paid maternity leave. Together, Mr. Rubio and Ms. Trump just might get us out of this rut and into good company.