Two decades ago, when I was skating competitively, it was always clear who my primary rival would be: Michelle Kwan, a skater who regularly received 6.0s, or what were then perfect scores. How do you beat a perfect score? To find a way to compete with her, my coaches and I needed to come up with a plan. My best chance, we decided, would be to add technical difficulty. We added a triple loop, triple loop combination to my program, and I became the first woman to land one in competition. It’s little decisions like these that accumulate through the years and through the efforts of multiple athletes to push a sport forward, and I’m very proud to have played a small part in this evolution. Today, almost all of the top women’s skaters have a triple-triple combination in their arsenal, and some even have two. But most athletes won’t push a sport forward unless they have the incentive to do so — let alone when the structures of a sport have been set up to actually incentivize them to hold back. Which explains the current challenges facing United States women’s skating in the Winter Olympics: Other than Mirai Nagasu, who landed a stunning triple axel in team competition early in the Games, individual podium hopes for the women this year are, realistically, not great. Meanwhile, the two leading Russian women are poised to potentially claim both gold and silver. How did we get here? The seeds of the current crisis in American women’s skating were planted long ago, not at the highest levels of the sport, but at the lowest. When the rules of judging skating in international competition changed in 2004, with the goal of making judging more transparent, one of the consequences was the rewarding of skaters who attempt more challenging technical elements in the pursuit of ever more points. But though the international rules changed judging at the junior and senior levels, it was up to each individual country to determine how it judged the lower level competitions. And in the American system, the juvenile through novice competitions did not change to keep up. Young skaters in the United States were rewarded not for innovating and taking risks — attempting new combos, for instance, or trying more difficult jumps — but for skating cleanly. Skating, like all other sports, has an element of strategy; what followed was a generation of young women who went home after competitions, rethought their programs, took out those triple-triples — and found they could still win. But this judging system created a pipeline of athletes who were not well equipped to be competitive on the world stage. Compare the United States with Russia, where skaters come up under a system designed to encourage them to up the technical ante at a very young age. Today, the gold-medal favorite Evgenia Medvedeva has two triple-triple combinations in her program. She and her teammate Alina Zagitova have begun raising their arms over their head during their jumps — another element that nabs them extra difficulty points, all of which add up. Ms. Zagitova, for her part, has put together a program designed to best take advantage of the scoring system: The spins and choreography sequence come in the first half of the skate, and the jumps come in the second, where they receive a 10 percent bonus because they are executed on tired legs. The American men have avoided the fate of the women thanks largely to the one-man phenom Nathan Chen, whose physicality and technical brilliance have helped push his teammates forward, too. Despite a disappointing short program this Olympics, Mr. Chen came back to win the free skate portion of the competition, setting a record for technical score in a Winter Olympic Games, and becoming the first man to successfully land five quads in competition and to attempt six. Happily, a course correction has begun. After the Sochi Games, the United States implemented a new judging system for skaters in lower levels intended to reward risk-taking and consistency. These sorts of changes won’t produce champions immediately, but we could see a real difference in the caliber of skaters in the Winter Olympics in Beijing in 2022. The selection of this year’s Olympic team is also a great sign. The United States is being represented by women like Ms. Nagasu, whose success with the notorious triple axel last week was a genuine American milestone, and Bradie Tennell, a virtual unknown until a few months ago but one who lands difficult triple-triple combinations, with ease and consistency. Neither is likely to match the prowess of the Russians, but their selection sends a clear message from the highest level of United States skating to the next generation: Risks bring rewards. Take it from someone who was once criticized for focusing too much on technical skating — they’re right.