Christina Garcés, a medical student at Temple University in Philadelphia, spends some of her time in the places where heroin users congregate. She’s one of a group of nurses, doctors and medical students who offer the users basic medical care, socks and the overdose-reversal drug naloxone; drive them to the hospital; and connect them to drug treatment and other resources. On Feb. 11 she was about to go home from one such encampment, near the Emerald Street Bridge, when a man in his 50s approached her, carrying a photo. “Have you seen my daughter?” he said. He explained that he was looking for her because her son needed surgery and she had to sign a form. Garcés had not seen her. “Did you try the other bridge?” No luck, the man said. “But I saw her there two days ago and gave her a big hug,” he added, then looked off into the distance. Later recalling the man, Garcés said, “It was the face of a father who’s just realized he may have hugged his daughter for the last time.” The opioid crisis inflicts such cruelty on millions of American families every day. Philadelphia families endure more than their share. “We had an estimated 1,200 overdose deaths in Philly in 2017,” said Tom Farley, the health commissioner. “To put that in perspective, AIDS deaths at the worst of the epidemic were 935. We have the highest overdose rate by far of any of the 10 biggest cities in America.” Like most places, Philadelphia is arresting drug dealers, reducing opioid pain prescriptions, running ads about the dangers of opioid abuse and distributing naloxone. Many cities and towns struggle to increase the number of doctors qualified to offer opioid substitution therapy with buprenorphine, or with Suboxone, which contains buprenorphine and naloxone. Philadelphia has been successful. There is no waiting list for treatment. On that score, Philly is far ahead of most cities. And now it is starting to apply two new strategies used virtually nowhere else in the country, with officials elsewhere watching closely. Here are the innovations: Treatment on demand. Really. There’s no waiting list for treatment, but patients do have to wait. “Some doctors who can offer Suboxone have admission requirements,” said Benjamin Cocchiaro, a family medicine resident at the University of Pennsylvania, who also treats patients at Philadelphia’s syringe exchange, Prevention Point. He said some won’t treat patients who are new to their practice. Since there is no centralized provider database, case managers must call from a list of 20 facilities to see if one has a slot — a barrier that could have been overcome with simple Airbnb-style software, Cocchiaro said. As things stand now, even for those people who can get a slot, treatment doesn’t happen right away. “They are assessed, an appointment set up,” said Farley. “It may take a few days and a couple of visits.” “A lot of the problem has to do with plain old business hours,” said Cocchiaro. “If you come into the emergency department at 5 p.m. on a Friday, it will be more difficult to place you, once the social workers have gone home.” Any problem that can be solved with off-the-shelf software really shouldn’t be a problem. And it’s a big deal. If someone is in withdrawal and ready to start treatment, Suboxone is needed right away to stop withdrawal sickness — or the drug user will stop it with heroin. For people with substance use disorder, Garcés said, there are two gateways into official Philadelphia: the criminal justice process and the emergency room. These also could be gateways to drug treatment, but cities uniformly fumble both opportunities. In Philadelphia, for example, inmates once could get Suboxone only if they were already on it, and emergency rooms, accustomed to “treat ’em and street ’em,” didn’t give out Suboxone. “In the past, we’ve had very little to offer people,” said Jeanmarie Perrone, a professor of emergency medicine at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. “All we could do was hand them a piece of paper and say: ‘I think there’s a clinic on 40th and Girard. If you go there, I think they’ll take your insurance.’” But the city’s jails are now starting to get inmates into treatment. And Perrone is training emergency room doctors at Penn to give Suboxone to patients in withdrawal who want it, to tide them over until they can enter formal treatment. (Only doctors who are qualified can prescribe Suboxone. But any E.R. doctor can legally give a patient a dose.) Perrone got the idea from Andrew Herring, an emergency medicine doctor at Highland Hospital in Oakland, Calif. He’s been doing it for a year, and is now training seven more California hospitals. “I encourage everyone to ask, ‘What’s your best experience with sober living?’” Perrone said. “Most people have strong opinions: I did O.K. on methadone for a month. Some people say I’ve bought Subs on the street and I’d be willing to do that.” So far, her hospital’s emergency room has treated very few patients. “Most people say they’re just not ready,” said Perrone. “We see overdoses. Those are the patients least ready — an hour ago they were going to try to get as high as they could get. And 10 percent will be dead in a year. “Other patients come in because they’re sick — a heart valve infection or abscess. They need withdrawal treatment or they’re going to leave in the middle of their hospitalizations.” Fear of withdrawal is also a major reason that drug users don’t want to go to a hospital to begin with. “The third group is: ‘I’m fed up. Somebody stole my shoes. I can’t do it any more. I’m so sick and so tired. I need treatment right now.’ I always felt so terrible handing them that piece of paper.” Gail D’Onofrio, a pioneer of the practice who leads the department of emergency medicine at Yale, published a study in 2015 showing that starting patients on Suboxone in the emergency room  works: 78 percent were still in treatment a month later, twice as many as those who got only referrals to treatment. She said hospitals in fewer than 10 cities offer Suboxone in the emergency room. (In Philadelphia, only a few do). “But way more are in process,” she said, adding that she gets calls from new places every week. A follow-up study showed that the gains were holding at two months, but not at six months or a year. Nevertheless, Jeffrey Hom, a policy adviser to Philadelphia’s public health department, said the program was still valuable. “For many people this is a chronic disease,” he said. “Relapses happen. You may have tried Suboxone and had some success and it may not be sustained, but you may come back to it at a later date. “Each dose of Suboxone may mean one less dose of heroin. There’s so much fentanyl in the heroin supply that you are really reducing the risk of fatal overdose.” Watching Over Drug Use Philadelphia’s second innovation is considerably more controversial. On Jan. 23, the city approved the establishment of a supervised drug consumption site. (Ithaca, N.Y., did the same in 2016, then Seattle and now San Francisco, but none of cities has yet opened a site.) Such sites have open carrels, patrolled by trained staff members who give out sterile equipment and can administer naloxone. (People bring their own drugs.) And the facilities offer a lot more; the Philadelphia version, for example, aims to deliver social services in a nonstigmatizing environment that can reach users whom a more punitive or judgmental system can’t. “The staff will engage drug users,” Farley said. “On a constant basis, remind them of the value of treatment and help them get into treatment. “ The city government won’t fund or run the site — but the government will help bring together private funding and groups qualified to run it. Such facilities exist in more than 100 cities around the world — Philadelphia calls its version a comprehensive user engagement site, or CUES — and the number is rapidly rising. Canada has had one in Vancouver since 2003; in the last year or so, it’s opened about 20 more in Vancouver and other cities. The research (see here and here) is strong. Users in these sites overdose all the time, but because there are always people present with naloxone, no overdose has been fatal. They save lives, don’t increase drug injecting, and get people into health care, including treatment. Neighborhoods see less public injecting and syringe litter, and the sites do not increase crime. They’ve been politically impossible in most of the United States, however — too much fear of sending a signal that we tolerate drug abuse. (On the other hand, look where unalloyed condemnation has gotten us.) Researchers recently published a study about a secret site, however, in an American city they did not name. Philadelphia was smart in defusing opposition. A mayoral task force on opioids made exploring such sites one of its 18 recommendations. A consultant reviewed research on sites around the world and found many benefits. She estimated that a single site in Philadelphia would save 24 to 76 lives per year and hundreds of thousands of dollars. “There’s a small population that despite all efforts is not going into treatment,” Farley said. “We felt that there was a piece of the population currently addicted to heroin whose lives we could save with a facility like this.” City officials went to Vancouver; they included the police commissioner, who switched from “never” to “I have an open mind” after talking to his Vancouver counterpart. (Police officers in America spend a lot of time dealing with drug users and reviving people who overdose. They don’t enjoy it.) One issue is that injecting, supervised or not, is illegal. “But prosecutors have to make decisions about their resources,” said Farley. “It wouldn’t make sense to deploy those resources to prevent somebody like me from saving lives.” The Trump administration disagrees. When officials in Vermont — one of the states hardest hit by opioids — talked about setting up a site, the United States attorney called it “counterproductive and dangerous” and warned that the staff and users would be committing a crime. That ended that. Garcés is a co-founder of Sol Collective, which has campaigned for a safe consumption site in Philadelphia. She said that when she was talking to the man looking for his daughter, “it was incredibly painful to know that if there were a safe consumption site, I would know where she would be tomorrow. You could be reasonably certain he could get that form signed. You could be reasonably certain she would stay alive, and we would find her.”