This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Let’s make this simple: 1. Russia attacked the United States in 2016 by disrupting the presidential election. 2. The origin of the attack is a matter of consensus among American intelligence agencies. 3. The current president of the United States refuses to acknowledge the attack, refuses to respond to it and refuses to help protect the country against a likely follow-up attack. 4. In the wake of the mass murder of 17 Americans in Florida, the president falsely claimed that the F.B.I. failed to prevent the massacre because it was too occupied with the Russia investigation. In doing so, he repeated his frequent lie that the Russian operation did not exist. There is no longer any doubt that President Trump is failing to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, as he solemnly swore to do. “At every turn, Trump has failed to do what a patriotic president would do — failed to put the national interest first,” writes David Frum in The Atlantic. My colleague Tom Friedman writes: “This is code red. The biggest threat to the integrity of our democracy today is in the Oval Office.” Lawfare’s Susan Hennessey writes: “Much of my education has been about grasping nuance, shades of gray. Resisting the urge to oversimplify the complexity of human motivation. This year has taught me that, actually, a lot of what really matters comes down to good people and bad people. And these are bad people.” A setback for gerrymandering. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court redrew the state’s congressional map yesterday — which The Times’s Nate Cohn said “could prove to be the most important single event of the campaign for the House.” The new map is close to a best-case scenario for Democrats, political analysts agreed. Currently, Democrats win close to half of the popular vote for the House but less than a third of the seats. In the new map, the breakdown of seats is much more likely to resemble that of the vote. Finance for good. If the government isn’t able to reduce gun violence, maybe the finance industry can. Andrew Ross Sorkin explains how. (And if you want to sign up for the new DealBook newsletter, you can do so here.)