Is there a duty, even for those who fear how President Trump governs, to serve in the administration? The debate, which began after Mr. Trump’s election, has often been revisited during his presidency, most recently when Rachel Brand resigned this month as associate attorney general. She said that she did it solely to take a “dream job” as Walmart’s top lawyer, but it’s easy to imagine that she also left because of the stress of serving in the Trump administration’s Justice Department. If so, she is not the only one finding government service difficult at this time. Even under the best circumstances, the hours for senior officials are often long and the pay is low compared with what colleagues in the private sector earn. Under Mr. Trump, the challenges are particularly daunting. The president and his senior advisers have little use for government professionals. Agencies from the State Department to the Bureau of Prisons are understaffed. The president has crossed once-bright ethical lines, refusing to release his tax returns or to completely dissociate himself from his business while hiring family members for critical positions. Most disturbingly, the president and his surrogates often attack government institutions, including many that are among America’s most respected. Mr. Trump declared the F.B.I. and the Justice Department “disgraceful” and even singled out some public servants by name. Most recently, it was his national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, after he accused Russia of “disinformation, subversion and espionage.” The president promptly called him out in a tweet because the general “forgot to say” that it was “Crooked H, the D.N.C. and the Dems” who colluded with Russia. I’ve been a Trump critic, and I find this behavior appalling. But I still urge those in government and those thinking about joining — including my own students — to carry on. To know why, think about the opposite: What if people of character leave government and the best young people do not join? Government service as a noble profession has been under attack since at least the Reagan administration, and I worry that the Trump administration will be the last stage in a steady decline of respect for public service. Government then becomes a Fox News caricature of it — a collection of timeservers, toadies and incompetents. Such a turn would strengthen the argument for shrinking government further. Much of government is invisible to most Americans, but it is still vital. America needs people to devise a policy toward Brazil, prosecute drug dealers, buy weapons for the Army and administer Social Security, among many other tasks that are not glamorous but make a tangible difference in the lives of many Americans. Even for more political and controversial issues, like policy on immigration or on Syria, political leaders need advice from professionals. Although Mr. Trump and his associates usually listen to expert advice in the breach, they do listen at least occasionally. The United States is still in Nafta despite Mr. Trump’s hostility to free-trade agreements. Even more surprisingly, a president who once declared American efforts in Afghanistan a “total disaster” and said “my original instinct was to pull out” ended up increasing the military presence there in response to arguments made by military and defense officials. Young people in particular should serve. Most would begin with minor duties, with many buffers between them and the president. Even if they disagree with Mr. Trump’s policies, they need to learn the craft of government and will serve important roles in future administrations. Their value will come in 10 or 20 years when, as seasoned professionals themselves, they counsel presidents and implement their policies more effectively. If they don’t serve, over time our government will become hollow. Serving, however, doesn’t mean uncritical loyalty. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis seems to have maintained his integrity while serving the president, pushing back against what he considered a flawed and risky approach to North Korea, slow-rolling policies like Mr. Trump’s proposed discharge of transgender troops, and otherwise using his influence and formal position to curb some of Mr. Trump’s excesses. The resignation of someone with Mr. Mattis’s influence and credibility would be a blow to national security and the nation. However, if the president or a senior adviser has crossed an ethical line in another senior official’s bailiwick, it is right for that official to leave — but not to do so silently. Walter Shaub Jr.’s criticisms of the president on ethics grounds and resignation as director of the Office of Government Ethics did far more to highlight the administration’s ethical issues than if he had quietly taken another job. Chuck Rosenberg, the former acting head of the Drug Enforcement Administration, took umbrage over the president’s call to police officers to rough up suspects they were taking into custody. He sent a message to D.E.A. officers reminding them that upholding the rule of law was critical to the agency’s success and that “we have an obligation to speak out when something is wrong.” Shortly after that, he, too, resigned. Highly public resignations can also draw attention to important policy disagreements. Senior Clinton administration officials resigned to express “deep concerns” over President Bill Clinton’s plans for welfare reform. Elizabeth Southerland, a senior Environmental Protection Agency official, resigned to protest the damage the Trump administration is doing to the environment and public health. If things came to a head over North Korea or in the Mueller investigation, I’d like strong public servants to be there to advise the president against a rash or illegal order or, if that fails, to resign in protest to call greater attention to the problem. The strongest arguments for serving come down to legitimacy. You have personal legitimacy if you do a good job and speak your mind when necessary, giving you the credibility to make an impact. Institutional legitimacy also depends on both competence and integrity. It’s hard to maintain both when the president’s supporters constantly malign the intentions of public servants and even call for a “purge.” But if people leave and political hacks or neophytes take those jobs, legitimacy may vanish and government becomes simply a tool for those in power to pursue personal agendas and rule without restraint.