The interior secretary, Ryan Zinke, recently directed the agencies in his department to work with states and private landowners to minimize development and disturbance in migration corridors and winter ranges used by elk, mule deer and pronghorn antelope. Because the Trump administration has otherwise reduced many land and wildlife protections, the move was immediately dismissed by some environmental groups as “greenwashing.” But Mr. Zinke’s order is based on solid ecological science, and it reflects broad support in conservative Western states for protecting a natural wonder important to ecosystems and rural communities. These animals make long, arduous journeys across the most rugged of Western landscapes. My colleagues and I have tracked herds that travel a hundred miles or more each year, struggling across snowbound mountain ranges and raging rivers. They endure all this because the rewards outweigh the risks: The herds can fatten up on green grass in the high country all summer, then shelter all winter in the valleys and on the plains, away from the deep mountain snow. These migratory herds are the lifeblood of many Western landscapes. They sustain apex predators like wolves, grizzly bears and mountain lions; diverse scavengers like eagles and foxes; and businesses that cater to hunters and wildlife watchers. That’s why protecting the migrations of these big-game animals is becoming a priority for a wide spectrum of Westerners from environmentalists to hunters to ranchers. Globally, large mammal migrations are declining. They persist in large areas of the American West (with the notable exception of the long-lost bison migrations across the Great Plains) because the federal government has set aside vast areas of public land, state governments have limited hunting to sustainable levels, and many landowners have kept large tracts undeveloped. But perils remain. Some migrations are being choked off by housing and energy development, fences and roads, and the encroachment of invasive plants that replace native grasses. The threats are growing as more people move West seeking a high quality of life and, ironically, open space. Yellowstone National Park, always a microcosm of the West and its challenges, has been an epicenter of recent discoveries about migrations, what threatens them and how to protect them. Six species — elk, mule deer, pronghorn, bighorn sheep, moose and bison — have made seasonal migrations since long before Europeans arrived, across what is now a chaotic mess of jurisdictional boundaries. Elk are particularly important to the Yellowstone area because they are the main prey of wolves, grizzly bears and mountain lions, and a major draw for hunters and tourists who visit by the millions every year. Though experts have long known about the elk migrations, it was the advent of GPS tracking that revealed the incredible scope of these travels. In the early 2000s, federal, state and university biologists began putting GPS collars on elk around the Yellowstone landscape for local studies and management purposes. In my research, I have helped stitch together disparate data sets and fill in gaps. The resulting map we put together illuminated a web of migration corridors radiating outward from Yellowstone into an area five times its size. More than 20,000 elk in at least nine major herds travel these corridors. They are the very same animals park visitors see in summer, but they live 20, 30 or even 50 miles beyond park boundaries in winter, on lands held by the Bureau of Land Management, the Forest Service, state governments and hundreds of private landowners, and used for such things as grazing, hunting, timber harvests and mineral extraction. When I look at this map, I see Yellowstone’s veins and arteries, carrying the blood in and out of its big heart. Other researchers, working across public and private land south of Yellowstone, have mapped two major migrations where new conservation initiatives are underway. In one case, biologists from the University of Wyoming, the Wyoming Game and Fish Department, the National Park Service and the Wildlife Conservation Society mapped a 120-mile migration of pronghorns from their winter range in the Green River Basin to their summer range in Grand Teton National Park. In another, the wildlife biologist Hall Sawyer, working with the Bureau of Land Management, discovered and mapped a 150-mile mule deer migration in the same general area. This stunning discovery, in 2012, of a migration rivaling the longest known large mammal migration in Africa reminds us that we do yet understand the full extent of the natural treasures on our public lands. For both the pronghorn and mule deer migrations, the National Geographic photographer Joe Riis located the trails and followed the herds through seasons and years to tell the story. Maps and photographs together fueled public support for new protections. For the pronghorn, these included the first migration corridor ever designated on Forest Service land, conservation easements and fence removals on private land, and new overpasses installed by the Wyoming Department of Transportation to reduce wildlife-vehicle collisions. For the mule deer, the newly formed Wyoming Migration Initiative identified a spot along the corridor where 4,000 deer squeeze through a quarter-mile bottleneck that was proposed for residential development. Conservation groups then worked with the state to protect the land. Following on these successes, the Wyoming Game and Fish Commission issued a new policy to map and maintain the state’s migration corridors. This was a significant development in a state heavily reliant on oil and gas revenue. Pragmatic agencies and industry groups increasingly recognize that precision mapping of migration corridors and seasonal ranges can help them identify smart compromises between conservation of some resources and development of others. That’s not the only sign of local support for protecting migration corridors in deep-red parts of the West. One creative proposal to expand corridor conservation in Wyoming, Montana and Idaho came from Wyoming state legislators on the same day as Mr. Zinke’s announcement. Led by Albert Sommers, a Republican cattleman, a bipartisan group of lawmakers proposed that future visitors to Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks pay a small additional fee to support wildlife conservation beyond park boundaries. The idea reflects a recognition that no swatch of the Western landscape can be separated from the larger whole, and it may provide one path to pay for conservation of wildlife and working lands — the ranches and adjacent public lands they lease — around Yellowstone. The proposal lacks detail and will be complicated by an important debate about fee increases at national parks, but it deserves a close look from federal officials and conservationists. Despite this progress, the threats to migrations are still outpacing conservation. This is why leadership from the federal government, with its immense reach across hundreds of millions of acres, could be so important. But gaps and questions linger. Many migrations cross Forest Service lands, which are administered by the Department of Agriculture and beyond the reach of Mr. Zinke’s order. Most also cross private lands where funding is needed for conservation easements and incentives to accommodate wildlife. By joining with Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue, Mr. Zinke could engage not only the Forest Service but also conservation programs authorized by the last farm bill that can be used to help ranchers and farmers conserve habitats of migratory herds. Secretaries Zinke and Perdue would need assistance from Congress, which controls the purse strings on farm bill conservation programs as well as the Land and Water Conservation Fund— another potentially crucial funding tool in the conservation of migrations. To be sure, Mr. Zinke’s Interior Department has accelerated oil and gas leasing significantly in the past year, and some industry groups and Western stakeholders will push back on any new land protections whatsoever. That’s why the ultimate test of the new policy may come when a new gas field or wind farm is proposed in the middle of a migration corridor or a winter range. Mr. Zinke’s order states that “the best available science” will be used to inform “planning and developing energy” and “other relevant projects to avoid or minimize potential negative impacts on wildlife.” If that’s really the case, these migratory herds should receive much new attention in federal decision-making on public lands. Common ground is hard to come by in America right now. At kitchen tables and diners all across the West, conservationists, ranchers and sportsmen talk more and more about the so-called 80/20 rule here: If we are definitely going to disagree about 20 percent of whatever we take up together, we should try to focus on the 80 percent we can agree on. It’s a principle that could help us find a path to saving America’s last great wildlife migrations, and maybe much more.