In the early hours of Jan. 30, 1968, the first Communist rockets struck provincial capitals across South Vietnam. A nationwide ground assault followed, and by morning the next day, much of the urban South was besieged, including Saigon’s radio station, the South Vietnamese military headquarters and even the American Embassy. What local papers dubbed the “Year of Sand” — referring to the ubiquitous sandbags appearing in front of the nation’s doors and windows — was well underway. In the United States, the attacks, which came to be known as the Tet offensive, are remembered as a psychological turning point, the moment when President Johnson is said to have lost the faith of CBS broadcaster Walter Cronkite — and by extension, the public at large. Indeed, though Communist forces suffered substantial losses in manpower and morale, the contradiction between American officials’ buoyant promises and weeks of astonishing televised carnage was never reconciled. But Tet’s political impact in South Vietnam proved equally significant, and no less critical, in determining the outcome of the war. Still routinely mischaracterized as an American client regime, South Vietnam was home to millions of fervent but factionalized anti-Communists, mostly concentrated in urban centers and provincial capitals. Reacting to the shock of Tet, they set aside longstanding quarrels and rallied in a rare display of solidarity. But the outpouring of constructive energy following the Tet attacks was hastily squandered. Instead, President Nguyen Van Thieu used the opportunity to undertake naked power grabs, compromising the constitutional basis on which his legitimacy was premised, and driving even the most dedicated anti-communists to despair. Post-Tet resolve succumbed to cynical resignation, while military confidence and commitment eroded. As a result, a moment that could have been a turning point for the country became the beginning of the end. When the government finally surrendered to Communist tanks in April 1975, the South’s political fate had long since been sealed. Advertisement South Vietnam may appear, in hindsight, to have been a doomed political experiment. But in the wake of Tet, its supporters felt a new sense of urgency. In spite of the devastating violence, the South’s response to the Tet attacks represented the zenith of anti-Communist nationalism in the country. Cast for the first time into the forefront of the war, urban anti-Communist political observers were roused to action, and they reached across deep-seated political, regional and religious divides. They channeled their newfound energy into a series of broad-based umbrella groups, including the National Social Democratic Front and the National Salvation Front (or the “Liên Minh,” “The League”). This unprecedented outburst of collective action was propelled by a dawning awareness that the South’s arcane factions were no match for the Communist political machine. Beyond these uncharacteristic expressions of camaraderie, the post-Tet groundswell also breathed life into the South’s new constitutional system, hitherto scorned or dismissed after the previous year’s rigged presidential election. With the country reeling from the bloodshed, fledgling institutions like the revived National Assembly provided a blueprint for political cooperation, and a forum for republican constitutionalists who, whatever their reservations about the military regime, saw no future for themselves under one-party Communist rule. Infuriated by the violence, longtime government critics hastened to denounce the Communist attacks. Even the An Quang Buddhist group, whose 1963 and 1966 rebellions had brought the state to its knees, now cast its lot with the new constitutional system. Shaken by the ferocity of the onslaught in central Vietnam, An Quang ruled out accommodation with the Communists. Though there was little love for the South Vietnamese military, the group’s lay leaders opted to take their chances under Saigon’s uneven authority, which they judged far less capable than Hanoi of fulfilling its authoritarian aspirations. To that end, An Quang raised eyebrows in 1970 by embracing and prevailing in the Senate elections, securing a third of the contested seats. More remarkably, as the political situation deteriorated in subsequent years, An Quang refrained from actively challenging the state, even as traditionally loyal parties took to the streets in anger. An Quang’s unexpected restraint was a critical if overlooked factor in prolonging South Vietnam’s survival, and a symbol of the constitutional system’s squandered potential. Meanwhile, heartened by the post-Tet spirit of determination and solidarity, the South’s urban civil society implored the state to capitalize on that spirit by carrying out much-needed reforms. Phan Quang Dan, an opposition leader admired for bravely enduring torture by government henchmen, was one of many who leapt at the newfound possibilities. Dan proclaimed Tet to be “a tremendous opportunity to turn a temporary military success into a decisive political victory — if it is seized upon by the South Vietnamese government to move forward fast, reorganize the military and the administration, wipe out corruption, carry out sweeping land reforms, mobilize active popular participation and achieve national unity.” This was, to be sure, a tall order. Still, as the military’s cocksure vice president, Nguyen Cao Ky, observed during a March 1968 radio interview, “I know that they” — Saigon residents — “still don’t like us very much, but on the other hand, at least I’m now sure they also detest Communists.” Advertisement Within Ky’s characteristically glib remarks, however, lay an uncomfortable truth for Saigon’s ruling generals: Waves of anti-Communist anger after Tet were no assurance of loyalty to the much-reviled military regime. Consider, for instance, events in the city of Hue, where the gradual revelation of a brutal Communist massacre enraged and galvanized informed Southerners. But while the city’s plight remains a symbol of Communist ruthlessness, reactions at the time were often nuanced, and multifaceted. Penned in the wake of the massacre, Trinh Cong Son’s “Song for Human Corpses” emphasized collective sorrow rather than assigning blame, while the novelist Nha Ca’s “Mourning Headband for Hue” controversially tasked the entire nation with responsibility for ending the bloodshed. Hue residents, meanwhile, were incensed by Communist kidnappings and executions — but also by indiscriminate American firepower. They reserved special contempt for the South Vietnamese military, which had fled at the first sign of trouble only to pillage the city’s remains once the dust settled. In this regard, Hue’s experience was not atypical. Flight followed by looting was a recurring pattern for the South Vietnamese military, which repeated its Hue performance in Soc Trang, Da Lat and Vinh Long, among other provincial towns. The garrison at Tuy Hoa, the capital of Phu Yen province, vanished before a shot was fired. Reinforcements eventually arrived, but only after the Communists left of their own accord. The troops, nonetheless, staged an elaborate victory procession followed by a comprehensive sacking of the town. “The army didn’t defeat the Communists, it defeated us,” a local civilian lamented. American responses were likewise roundly condemned. Hoping to dislodge Communist resistance, American air and artillery strikes leveled the city of Nha Trang, while over 3,000 houses were destroyed in Saigon’s District 8 alone. Nearby Gia Dinh province, meanwhile, saw an estimated 20,000 residents left homeless during the first few weeks of the campaign. The nationwide barrage fueled a spiraling anti-American backlash. By the early 1970s, United States personnel were subject to routine street confrontations, and increasingly confined to remote bases. All the while, conspiracy-minded Vietnamese devoured rumors of C.I.A. collusion in the Communist attacks, an apparent pretext for accelerating American withdrawal. Responding to the outcry, the Lower House of the National Assembly issued a formal complaint, and government mouthpieces like the newspaper Cong Chung (The Public) charged the United States with destroying Hue. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. In the cities, the initial shock inspired renewed determination, but the offensive was a severe psychological blow in much of the countryside. Having witnessed the military’s cowardice, exploitation of civilian misery and inability to resist the initial attacks, rural constituents lost faith in the state’s ability or desire to protect them. Moreover, contrary to the notion that Tet marked an irrevocable defeat for the southern communists, the aftermath was a fluid and protracted affair. Through much of 1968, the Communists strengthened their position in large swathes of the countryside, pinning American and South Vietnamese ground troops in bases and cities. Initial losses were balanced by ramped-up infiltration from the North, albeit at the cost of mounting regional tensions within the ranks. Only the following year, after an American counterattack characterized by indiscriminate firepower and heavy civilian casualties, did the military balance gradually turn — and even then, the Communist retreat was tactical as much as imposed. Advertisement Responding to waning civilian morale after their promises of imminent victory proved hollow, Communist partisans ruthlessly applied the stick, intensifying conscription and assassinating those who dared side with the Saigon regime. But they also took care to dangle carrots. In Phuoc Tuy province, for instance, cadres went door-to-door collecting lists of required medications, which they procured on the black market and distributed to grateful villagers. In part through such efforts, the Communists’ political network stayed intact even as the military laid low. Income taken in by the South covered barely 30 percent of expenses, but Communist tax collection continued apace. After Tet, the C.I.A. reported, the Communists remained able to “mobilize from within South Vietnam most of the funds and nonmilitary supplies needed to support the Communist insurgency.” The Viet Cong “exercise considerable control over the production, processing and movement of many commodities essential to South Vietnam’s economy,” while its “tax system draws revenues from virtually every segment of the” South’s economy. Even France’s Michelin rubber plantations, clustered in the nearest province west of Saigon, made regular payments to Communist coffers. Years after the attacks, the Communist presence around the capital remained formidable. In Long An province, immediately south of Saigon, American intelligence conceded that nearly half of the Communists’ village-level revolutionary committees were as effective as the South Vietnamese state in supplying goods and services. The Viet Cong, it went on, “have been able to organize regular schools in certain areas and have even staged public spectacles.” Fighting a losing political battle, the South Vietnamese government acknowledged that sweeping reforms were required if it was to stand any chance of wooing the disaffected rural majority. But as usual, progress was delayed for years by perennial political infighting. President Thieu’s archrival, the flamboyant Vice President Ky, seized on Tet as a chance to turn the tables on his nemesis. Ky charged Thieu with inaction, promising dramatic responses of his own, including the liberation of the North by force. Behind the scenes, he worked to assemble backing for a military coup. But when word of Ky’s plotting reached the American Embassy, he was summoned for a dressing-down, with the deputy ambassador, Samuel Berger, pounding his fists on the table in frustration. Assured of American backing, Thieu quietly made his move, relieving Ky’s military loyalists of their duties, including some of the army’s most capable commanders. Paranoid and reclusive, Thieu continued lashing out at rivals, real and imagined, including Tran Ngoc Chau, an esteemed counterinsurgency specialist. Chau’s unconstitutional arrest, however, provoked howls of protest in the National Assembly, which retaliated by delaying Thieu’s signature Land Reform program for well over a year. To his credit, Thieu was the driving force behind that initiative, called “Land to the Tiller,” overcoming American reservations through the tireless efforts of his agriculture minister, Cao Van Than. But while South Vietnam’s proponents then and since have seen land reform as a panacea for the government’s enduring unpopularity, the results at the time were far more mixed. Advertisement The breakthrough came from Saigon’s de facto recognition of the Communists’ own wildly popular land redistribution efforts, implemented across the South years or even decades earlier. To avoid eruptions of animosity when absentee owners attempted to reclaim requisitioned land, the government sagely bestowed legal title to beneficiaries of previous Communist land reform campaigns. However sound a policy, this approach enraged the government’s beleaguered rural loyalists, who accused the state of betrayal for rewarding those who had backed the other side. Military veterans, often forced to abandon their land after impressment, also greeted the news with dismay. Worse still, implementation proved slow, uneven and plagued by corruption. For years to follow, pockets of farmers continued paying rent on land that neither the government nor former landlords deigned to inform them they now owned. Refugee beneficiaries complained that their allotments were inaccessible or unsafe due to military disinterest in providing security, while communities in arid Central Vietnam bemoaned land valuations based on those of the more fertile Mekong Delta. Loans for sorely needed farm equipment were all too often siphoned off by unscrupulous local officials, and recipients among the country’s ethnic minorities despaired at systematic Vietnamese encroachment. While land reform was a welcome effort that achieved some qualified success, it did little to diminish Communist influence, or alleviate soaring inflation and corruption. In areas once held by the Communists, the impact was titular rather than transformative, with farmers awarded title to lands they assumed they had already long since owned. If anything, absentee landlords were the primary beneficiaries, granted generous American-subsidized compensation for property they had little prospect of recovering. Back in the urban centers, meanwhile, the burst of post-Tet solidarity gave way to anger over plummeting living standards and corruption. Starved of government attention, let alone funding, pan-religious coalitions like the nominally state-backed National Social Democratic Front descended into scheming and bickering, while provincial enthusiasts waited in vain for leadership from the capital. In fact, as President Thieu’s private secretary later revealed, covert C.I.A. subsidies to the N.S.D.F. were instead pocketed for personal use by high-ranking officials. Absent official backing, these promising stabs at political unity died on the vine. Instead, fresh from re-election after his opponents withdrew in protest, Thieu was busy preparing his own decidedly unpluralistic political vehicle: “the Democracy Party.” In reality, the party was anything but democratic, with its compulsory civil service participation and clandestine military cells earning unfavorable comparisons with the Communist Party. But Thieu, who had long since tired of opposition and resistance to his agenda, envisioned the Democracy Party as a means of binding anti-Communists together from above. Ramming through decrees that all but proscribed any other party, he then coerced bureaucrats and military officers into joining Democracy Party ranks. But rather than rallying southern society behind his rule, as Thieu had implausibly gambled, the Democracy Party further alienated the country’s most committed anti-communists, who instead pledged to uphold their previous allegiances. The political party decrees also dealt a death blow to the Senate, by now the South’s last independent political institution. In 1967, a new generation of sincere, enthusiastic politicians had won seats; by 1973, when Thieu replaced the Senate with his own handpicked politicians, the institution’s resistance had been broken. On the eve of the Senate’s 1973 replacement, an onlooker recorded the despondent remarks of a departing member: “‘The noble experiment at constitutionalism launched in 1967 was turning sour.’ He had been surprised in 1967, [the senator] said, ‘at the number of qualified people who engaged themselves enthusiastically in the experiment by running for office that year’ … ‘These good people are retreating once again,’ the senator concluded, ‘once more waiting for some watershed before engaging themselves.’” During the final years of the war, even ferociously anti-Communist northern Catholic groups, long the state’s staunchest proponents, lost faith in the state’s ability to address the nation’s cascading crises. The prevailing sense of dread was a far cry from the energy and purpose that had invigorated the anti-Communist South after Tet. And it took its toll on the military, whose rank and file likewise lost faith in the country’s unresponsive leaders. Drained of discipline and confidence by the spring of 1975, the South’s lavishly equipped military was once again set on its heels by the first Communist skirmishes, with retreating soldiers commandeering frantic civilians’ escape crafts. Advertisement Still, belief in the notion of a non-Communist-led South Vietnam was always substantial, if also fragmented and disorganized. For all its flaws, the state was no mere puppet, and as a generation of American statesmen discovered, control of Saigon’s purse-strings in no way bestowed control over its politics. Far more than any decision in Washington, it was the government’s own failure to unite and inspire core constituents, or to secure a rural base, which provided the knockout blow. Sean Fear is a lecturer in international history at the University of Leeds. Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 