On Feb. 23, 2006, during the first 30 seconds of my long program in figure skating at the Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy, I fell twice. The gasps from the audience drowned out my music — and even my thoughts — for a split second. It was my second Olympics, and I knew that any hopes I had for gold were gone. But I had a program to finish, and I pulled myself together. The rest of my program was everything I could have hoped for, earning me the silver. Standing on the podium that night, I felt a deep sense of loss, which at the time I attributed to missing my chance at gold. But in retrospect I realize that part of what I was experiencing was a glimpse of the end of my skating career, and the sadness and confusion that would accompany my retirement. Four years later, when I didn’t qualify for the 2010 Winter Olympics, and I finally knew I would never again compete in the Olympics or elsewhere, my identity as a competitive figure skater — two decades in the making — crumbled away. Suddenly, at age 25, I had to figure out who I was. What I didn’t appreciate then was that win or lose, every Olympic athlete faces a kind of mortality when his or her career ends. The transition to “normal” life is difficult — for some it is emotionally devastating — and even Olympic gold medals can’t protect you. I was shocked to learn that the swimmer Michael Phelps, who won 23 Olympic gold medals in his career, suffered from depression and thoughts of suicide after he retired. The challenge of adjusting to post-Olympic life is something that I, like most Olympians, was poorly equipped to face. How do you deal with being a has-been at 21? On Sunday, after the closing ceremony of the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, many of the athletes will confront their own versions of this question. I hope sharing my experiences might provide some guidance about what to expect. At first, I confess, retirement felt like a much-needed vacation. I loved being able to sleep in, not needing to coax my aching body into hours of training or to worry about carrying my own immense expectations, let alone those of my country. But after a few months, life felt flat. Without the ready-made purpose of training for the next season, I was lost. I missed the highs — and the lows — that made me feel alive when I was a competitive athlete. It is also a strange feeling, after having thought of yourself for years as one of “the best in the world,” to find that you are now behind many of your peers. Like many Olympians, I was home-schooled and received a subpar education. I didn’t go to college until I was 26. I hadn’t attended school since the seventh grade, and getting up to speed academically after all that time away was daunting. When I did my first summer internship I was 29; the other interns were a decade younger. These challenges didn’t always translate to emotional difficulties, but when they did, I often didn’t know what to do about them. As athletes, we are taught to suck it up, to deny pain and fear, to push through debilitating injuries, to persevere through anxiety and depression. It is hard to know when you need help and which emotions are “normal” when you have spent years in a physically and emotionally demanding environment. Recently, I have been contributing to a documentary project, “The Weight of Gold,” that addresses these themes. I’ve learned a lot about just how hard it is for some athletes to get the help they need — sometimes with tragic consequences. Steven Holcomb, a three-time Olympian and gold medalist in bobsled, was found dead of an apparent drug and alcohol overdose at the United States Olympic Training Center in Lake Placid, N.Y., last year. Days before his death, he had said in an interview that he couldn’t fathom what he would do with his life after the Olympics. If there is one thing I have learned in my own post-Olympics life, it is the importance of finding new goals, a new sense of purpose. When I entered college, I had never learned to write properly, and the equations in my math classes looked like hieroglyphics. But I put the same focus into college that I put into skating, and when I graduated with honors in 2016, it was one of the greatest moments of my life. I’m not the only one who feels this way. Phelps, who has become an advocate for mental health issues, recently said that the emotions he experiences doing this work “are light years better than winning the Olympic gold medal.” Olympic athletes need to understand that the rules for life are different from the rules for sports. Yes, striving to accomplish a single overarching goal every day means you have grit, determination and resilience. But the ability to pull yourself together mentally and physically in competition is different from the new challenges that await you. So after you retire, travel, write a poem, try to start your own business, stay out a little too late, devote time to something that doesn’t have a clear end goal — in short, do everything you couldn’t do when you were training. There are endless ways to find purpose and meaning after the Olympics. Just give yourself some time. Learn to live for the process again without being defined by the results, the way you did when you first started your sport.