This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. One after another, companies under pressure from survivors of the Florida mass shooting are ending their relationships with the National Rifle Association. Avis, Hertz, Delta, United, MetLife and others have all done so since last week. But at least one major company has refused so far: FedEx. FedEx offers N.R.A. members up to a 26 percent discount — the sort that the other companies have chosen to end. “Wait does @FedEx still support the NRA?” David Hogg, a senior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, the site of the Feb. 14 shooting, tweeted this weekend. Many students have called for a boycott of companies that support the N.R.A. In the case of FedEx, there are obvious alternatives: U.P.S., DHL and the Postal Service. Ending a discount program won’t, in and of itself, save any lives or cause great political damage to the N.R.A. But the FedEx situation has now become something of a test case of the new anti-gun movement. It’s also a test case for whether a major company feels comfortable allying itself with a group that effectively promotes violence. So I’m with the students on this one: I encourage you not to use FedEx so long as it’s comfortable siding with the N.R.A. Voter turnout. My column this morning is about the biggest opportunity and biggest challenge for progressives: Voter turnout. Progressives don’t vote at the same rate as conservatives do. In the most recent midterm election — in 2014 — only 16 percent of American citizens between the ages of 18 and 29 voted, for example. That group also happened to be overwhelmingly liberal. Among citizens who were at least 60 years old — a demographic group that leans conservative — 55 percent voted in 2014. For more of these stark statistics, check out the chart that’s running with my column. And while the vote-suppression efforts of the Republican Party are certainly odious, they’re not the main reason for low turnout. Consider: Which big, left-leaning demographic group has the highest turnout? The same one that is the target of the worst suppression campaigns: African-Americans. The new progressive energy inspired by the Trump presidency is certainly exciting. It has helped lift turnout in a couple of recent elections, too. To win lasting victories, though, turnout will need to rise substantially. For more on this subject, check out the statistics kept by Michael P. McDonald of the University of Florida. The recent analysis of special elections by the Daily Kos Elections team is also worth reading. And I recommend a new piece in Democracy journal by Lara Putnam and Theda Skocpol. Memo wars. Two weeks ago, President Trump blocked the release of a memo that House Democrats wrote in response to a Republican memo on the Russia investigation. On Saturday, the House Intelligence Committee — controlled by Republicans, because they’re in the majority — finally released the Democratic memo. “If the Democrats are being even generally accurate as to the material that the majority omitted from the original memo,” argue Lawfare’s Quinta Jurecic and Benjamin Wittes, “then there is little left of the original document” that holds up to scrutiny.