HOUSTON — Maybe you are one of those people who harbor the vain hope that the Democratic Party will lead us from the wilderness. That the leadership will band together and, in a first step toward restoring national sanity, win control of the House in November. If this is the kind of thing you dream about, my advice is to stay away from the House race here in District 7, a C-shaped sprawl of nearly 800,000 Texans who are 67 percent white and enjoy a comfortable median income of $71,000. The district has been under Republican control since the 1960s and since 2001 has been represented by John Culberson, a Tom DeLay Republican who is not just a progressive’s nightmare but a moderate’s too. Anti-abortion, anti-Obamacare, anti-immigrant and pro-gun, Mr. Culberson hasn’t had much luck getting post-Hurricane Harvey relief down here, either. Still, his prosperous, conservative constituents remain loyal. But in 2016, Hillary Clinton carried the district by a smidgen, and local Democrats saw an opening. Now seven of them are on the ballot in the election next Tuesday for the party’s nomination — and the chance to oppose Mr. Culberson in November and, possibly, help turn the House blue. Politico listed the contest as one of the top 10 to watch this year. Unfortunately, the race has also exposed the self-immolative tendencies of the party out of power. Exhibit A is the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, which last week decided to attack a candidate in the race. Another Democrat. And a woman. In District 7. Let me try to explain, since the D.C.C.C. did not respond to phone calls or emails. On the ground, this race looked tough from the beginning, though not for obvious reasons. Three of the strongest candidates — Alex Triantaphyllis, Lizzie Pannill Fletcher and Laura Moser — all went to the same fancy private school, which meant that many well-heeled Houstonians had to go through the social agony of choosing one over the other two or giving to all three. To make matters worse, the ideological differences among these three — and the other four candidates — are microscopic. As time went on, Mr. Triantaphyllis, a Harvard Law School graduate and a consultant who left a big firm to work for a popular nonprofit, won the hearts and minds of the downtown powers — the liberal ones, that is — while Ms. Fletcher, a corporate litigator and Planned Parenthood bigwig, got the most backing from Hillary Clinton loyalists. She was thought (by them) to have the best chance of appealing to Republican women who had had enough of President Trump. Ms. Moser, whose husband was the videographer for President Barack Obama, skewed a little farther left. Her work history was spottier: She has been a freelance writer. After Mr. Trump’s victory, she created Daily Action, a service that allowed the grief-stricken to barrage their public servants in Washington with angry texts. All three candidates were native Houstonians, though Ms. Moser came home from Washington to run. By the end of the third quarter of 2017, Mr. Triantaphyllis had raised the most money — more than Mr. Culberson. Ms. Fletcher came in second and Ms. Moser third. At the same time, Ms. Moser, who somewhat resembles a taller and younger Carol Burnett, was more colorful in person and better at grass-roots organizing than her competitors. If her politics were a little squishy, she was more entertaining — supporters could take a spin class with #MeToo’s Alyssa Milano! It wasn’t hard to figure out how threatening that could be, especially to the old-line Clinton Democrats who lost to Mr. Obama in 2008 and remembered the betrayal of Bernie Sanders in 2016. Those people undoubtedly influenced the political action committee Emily’s List to endorse Ms. Fletcher — and should have listened to the grumbling among female voters here, who thought the organization should not have chosen between two female abortion-rights supporters. Then came the D.C.C.C., with its high-stakes gamble of attacking Ms. Moser on its website. Maybe it believed, along with The Houston Chronicle, that Ms. Moser was too liberal to beat Mr. Culberson. (The paper endorsed Ms. Fletcher and another Democratic candidate, an oncologist.) Maybe the committee thought its gripes were legitimate — it complained that Ms. Moser was a “Washington insider” who had used her husband’s firm as her political consultants. But the first wasn’t true, and the second showed only that her husband worked cheap. Ms. Moser stated publicly she wouldn’t want to live in Paris, Tex.? Wow. Most urban Texans wouldn’t either. Besides, there is nothing Texans hate more than East Coast political operatives meddling in their business. Especially those who don’t know anything about Texas. Virtually overnight, the story of interference from real Washington insiders went viral, and Ms. Moser became a glorious martyr, quoting Michelle Obama (“When they go low …”). Her profile is skyrocketing, her fund-raising is booming. And no doubt John Culberson is ecstatic about the Democrats being in disarray. Note to the D.C.C.C.: Next time you think about sticking your nose where it doesn’t belong, try believing in the democratic process instead.