Gail Collins: Bret, the Olympics are over and Congress is back. Which would you like to talk about first? Bret Stephens: What I’d really like to talk about is that you are the winner of this year’s Polk Award for commentary, which put a huge smile on all of your colleagues’ faces and gives me a chance to make you blush at the outset of our conversation. Gail: Aw, thanks. Consider me blushing. Bret: O.K., let’s talk about ... the Olympics. I think the double luge is amazing and curling is not. I think Lindsey Vonn is an inspiration to women everywhere and Ivanka Trump is not. I think Chloe Kim is awesome and Mike Pence is not. Gail: Fair on all counts. I do think it’s interesting that once every four years the world devotes a certain amount of time to serious thinking about curling. I have to admit I miss the old TV version of the Olympics, where you’d have little back stories on the players’ previous issues with substance abuse, the very bad breakup the hockey goalie had with the luge guy — all the gossip. And then reporters running all over looking for stories, which were usually about somebody claiming someone else was cheating. Of course it’s better to have our athletes be virtuous and spend their time doing warm-up exercises and tweeting to their fans. Just seems sort of … dull. Obviously I have a bad character. Bret: Obviously. I’m mainly relieved that the Olympics came off without a war starting on the Korean Peninsula. Although maybe it’s premature to say that. Just after the last Winter Olympics, in Sochi, Vladimir Putin marched into Crimea. Don’t be shocked if Kim Jong-un was taking notes. I guess we also shouldn’t be shocked that Ivanka stonewalled a question from Peter Alexander of the Today Show about whether she believed her father’s denials of sexual misconduct. She said “it’s a pretty inappropriate question to ask a daughter.” What do you think? Gail: It would be pretty inappropriate to ask a daughter who wasn’t a member of the administration. Bret: Wait, you mean that Ivanka Trump shouldn’t play the daughter card while she’s in South Korea meeting the country’s president and representing the United States? That’s so 2015 of you. But go on. Gail: Blocking the kids out of my mind. Will not even mention Junior mixing business with — government — in India. Let’s move on to Congress. House and Senate skulking back into action — or whatever you call what it is they do. Doesn’t look as if there’ll be any action on guns, does it? Bret: Not while Republicans are in control. The president has spoken about raising the age limit for the purchase of assault rifles to 21, along with a ban on so-called bump stocks, which are devices that help increase the rate of fire. The N.R.A. seems broadly opposed to both, however, so that’s a nonstarter. And I don’t think Trump is going to expend much political capital on getting the G.O.P. to change its mind, either. Which is a tragedy, given the number of future mass shootings we can expect, considering how many past ones we’ve endured. Gail: Yeah, if it hurts gun business, it’s toast. Like the N.R.A. folk, Trump lives in an alternate universe where being armed means always being capable of hitting somebody in a crisis situation. And of course the president himself would have run right into that school the second he heard gunfire, armed or not. Because that’s just the kind of guy he is. I think we should start by challenging him to hit the side of a barn. Bret: In an alternative universe, Trump might have been the president with the popular clout to oppose the rank-and-file G.O.P. on the positions worth opposing — like the ones the party has on guns and abortion rights — while not opposing it on the positions worth preserving, like its past friendliness toward free trade and immigration. But since he’s incapable of broadening his base, he’s going to become ever more dependent on its hardest and most extreme core. Gail: Yeah, remember when we thought he might be someplace between Mitt Romney and Bernie Sanders? As opposed to where we find him now, which is someplace between a weekend replacement talking head on Fox and a professional wrestling villain. But about guns — you may be more radical than I am, given that you want to repeal the Second Amendment, while I’d be thrilled if we could just prohibit gun dealers from selling caches of weapons across state lines. I just can’t summon the energy to talk about changing the Constitution. When was the last success — 1992? And it was to ban Congress from getting a pay raise until after an election had passed. Which had originally been submitted for ratification in 1789. Wahoo. Bret: I don’t think of my proposal as radical at all. I think of it as the essence of conservatism, coming from someone who sees himself as a strict constructionist. The Constitution provides, in Article V, a method for amending itself. Let’s use it! Let’s use it to repeal an amendment that, having left us awash in 300,000,000 firearms, is defeating the larger purposes of the Constitution as they are spelled out in the preamble: to “insure domestic tranquillity”; to “promote the general welfare”; and to “secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.” What is “posterity” for the parents of the children massacred in Parkland, Fla.? Where are the “blessings of liberty” for those who were mowed down at a concert in Las Vegas? Where is the “domestic tranquillity” for the relatives of the 11,000 people murdered with a firearm in 2016? Gail: I applaud your sentiments. You’re absolutely right — I’m just sadly realistic. Bret: Some of my liberal friends think that repealing the Second Amendment is a pipe dream, and we should focus on more achievable goals like reversing the Supreme Court’s 2008 Heller decision and instituting a ban on the AR-15-style rifle, which was used by the killers in Parkland and Vegas. I’m skeptical. The United States had a huge gun problem long before Heller. And most firearm violence is done with handguns, not rifles. We need, at the very least, to start talking about root causes and not just symptoms. Questioning the relevance and legitimacy of the Second Amendment is what the N.R.A. most fears, which is why I’m going on about it. Gail: Bless you. And the fight must continue. Just because I’m sure Congress will punt on guns doesn’t mean I don’t really, really believe we have to change. The other thing our lawmakers are supposed to do is pass appropriations, although I guess they’ll kick the can down the road with some kind of just-keep-going bill. I am very worried about the whole spending situation. This administration is stripping so many good programs out of existence, from family planning to preserving whooping cranes. Do you have any worries on that front? Bret: Hadn’t heard about the whooping crane, which, for the record, I’m emphatically in favor of preserving as a safe and thriving species. I guess I’d make two points here. One is that mandatory spending on things like Social Security and Medicare keeps rising as a percentage of overall spending. Last I checked, it amounted to more than half of federal outlays, if you take Medicare to stand for mandatory health care spending generally. So the programs you mentioned are inevitably going to be on the endangered list, especially in an administration that wants to spend more of its discretionary dollars on defense. As I do. Gail: We need to spend a whole conversation on military spending sometime soon. Let me just hint at my position by whispering: Monumental. Amounts. Of. Waste. Bret: Uh oh, we might remind readers there are things we really do disagree about! Wasteful or not, I think Democrats should get behind some version of entitlement reform, to liberate, for the long term, some of the budget for priorities like the ones you mentioned. Gail: Putting entitlements on the must-take-up-in-future list, too. Only whispering that we could start by lifting the cap on the payroll tax. Bret: Or raising the retirement age and block-granting Medicaid. (Cue the evil cackle.) Anyway, my second point is that if liberals want to preserve those programs, they need to start acting more like a normal political opposition and less like “the resistance.” We hear too much from Democrats about how awful the president is, as if he doesn’t do a fine job by himself of proving the same point. We don’t hear nearly enough about the Democratic tax plan, infrastructure investment ideas and so on. I know there’s probably a paper on a D.N.C. website somewhere, but it’s not what the party is talking about. And it’s what people need to hear. Gail: I have faith that we’re going to get more of that kind of conversation when we get actual candidates running for president. Until then I hang my head and admit you’re right. Onward and upward, Bret. Save the whooping cranes. Bret: And another hurray for you, Gail, for a truly magnificent and well-deserved achievement. Blush away.