In the 1980 disaster spoof “Airplane!,” there’s a great running gag by Lloyd Bridges, who plays a control-tower supervisor. As trouble rears its head, he mutters, “Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit smoking” (and lights up a cigarette). Later, when the situation has grown even more dire (and absurd), he laments, “Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit amphetamines” (and swallows a handful of pills with a glass of milk). Finally, at the climax, he declares, “Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit sniffin’ glue!” and — well, you get the idea. I’ve had that sequence in mind the past few days because let’s face it, if you were looking for encouraging news for L.G.B.T.Q. people, it looks like you picked the wrong week. On Feb. 17, for instance, the Kansas Republican Party adopted a resolution that opposes — and this is the actual language — “all efforts to validate transgender identity.” Mind you, this is not a law about telling men and women where they can go to the bathroom. It’s not an executive action, like the president’s attempt to determine who may and may not serve in the military. It’s not even something as simple (and nefarious) as allowing businesses to selectively refuse service to gay individuals “on religious grounds.” It’s about making the dignity of certain human beings illegal. It means, should this resolution become law, that it will be a crime for the tiny transgender population — already one of the most maligned and marginalized in the nation — to exist “with validity” in the Sunflower State. “We’re motivated by love,” a member of the state party committee said. Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit drinking. Meanwhile, on Feb. 20, Ryan T. Anderson, a fellow at the Heritage Foundation, released a book that suggests that transgender people are crazy, and that what we deserve at every turn is scorn, contempt and belittlement. The book (with a particularly insulting title that I’m not going to put in print here) is abundant in junk science; its most frequently quoted source is one Dr. Paul McHugh, the right-wing doctor who succeeded in shutting down Johns Hopkins’s gender-research clinic almost 40 years ago. In 2016, a large number of faculty members at Hopkins’s School of Public Health denounced some of Dr. McHugh’s work, noting that it was not published in the scientific literature, where it would have been subject to rigorous peer review before publication. “We do not believe,” they wrote, “that the report is a comprehensive portrayal of the current science, and we respectfully dissociate ourselves from its findings.” Mr. Anderson says he was motivated to write the book because he wants to “end suffering.” Thanks, Mr. Anderson! I love you, man! There are lots of things to break your heart in this book, although the one that stays with me is the fact that Mr. Anderson appears not to have spoken to a single well-adjusted transgender individual throughout what I’m sure were his many minutes of meticulous research. Among the trans people I know best are a professor of astrophysics, a fire captain in Columbus, Ohio, a former deputy assistant secretary of defense, a Navy SEAL, an airplane pilot, two ministers and the owner of an orange plantation in Florida. It would have been nice if, in addition to the half dozen people with difficult stories Mr. Anderson interviewed, he’d spoken to some of these folks as well — people who would have assured him that transition has made their lives more joyful and complete. How much longer must transgender people continue to participate in public conversations about whether or not we know our own souls? How many clever “think pieces” must we endure in which our humanity is held up for debate, as if the question of our own selfhood is part of an argument which even now we might win or lose? What will it take for people on the right — and yes, some on the left as well — to understand that we are here, that we have been part of humanity for centuries and that what we want above all is to be left alone, just like anyone else, so that we may live our lives according to the dictates of our own hearts? It would be nice if, instead of seeking to erase the lives of those who are different, the perplexed might respond to the transgender moment in the spirit of Robert F. Kennedy. Soon after learning about the death of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., he told a crowd in Indianapolis: “What we need in the United States is not division; what we need in the United States is not hatred; what we need in the United States is not violence and lawlessness, but is love, and wisdom, and compassion toward one another, and a feeling of justice toward those who still suffer within our country, whether they be white or whether they be black.” Or whether they be gay, or lesbian, or bi, or trans. I know that the current administration isn’t that of Robert F. Kennedy, of course. But somehow I also keep hoping that things have gotten as bad as they’re going to get. Surely, I think, Republicans have done as much damage as they can possibly do to families like mine. Looks like I picked the wrong week to look for justice.