Last week, The Times published an essay by Michael Ian Black, “The Boys Are Not All Right,” that drew more than 2,100 comments on the Times site. Mr. Black is addressing some of those comments here; they have been edited for length and clarity. Max, Raleigh: 1) If you want to talk about aggressive masculinity having downsides, then you better mention that men continue to be the vast majority of soldiers, police officers, and firefighters — the people who die for this country, and to protect others. You can’t talk about aggressive masculinity without talking about its obvious social benefits. 2) Yes, it’s true these killers are men. There is zero evidence that their actions were a matter of expressing masculinity. Tying them to masculinity in the absence of evidence is purely ideological. 3) There is zero evidence that changing how we raise boys will have the intended effect. There is also zero evidence that changing how we raise boys will have a beneficial effect on boys. As far as I can tell, this is an excuse to continue to criticize men and masculinity without attending to the positives of men and masculinity. It will not do anything to bring our country together, or to end the tensions between the sexes. Michael Ian Black: 1. Aggression can certainly be a beneficial trait. The flip side of this in your examples are the often debilitating symptoms soldiers, police officers, and firefighters exhibit as a result of their jobs. So many of these men are reluctant to seek help for the simple reason that, for so many men, needing help is the same as being weak, anathema for men. 2. I agree with you that a shooter’s motive cannot be reduced to something as simple as “being a man,” nor did I mean to imply so. My larger point is that we need to examine why only men commit these crimes. What is going on with our boys and young men that allows them to walk into a public space and open fire, but not girls and young women? My piece is an attempt to start talking about that question. 3. My interest in writing this piece was not “bring the country together; it was an attempt to reduce gun violence and try to broaden the conversation from guns to other possible contributing factors, including the preponderance of boys committing these crimes. Bobotheclown: To have a loving father figure requires that he be secure, which requires that he has a job. In today’s world there are millions of people with no hope of ever being employed again. The real problem is that work itself is broken and the means by which men have always defined themselves is disappearing. A man without work is not a man at all, in the internal calculus of American masculinity. A man who no longer has a positive self-image cannot possibly raise a boy to have one. The problem is not just that our boys are broken but that our men are broken as well. MIB: I wholeheartedly agree about the problem of men in the culture but wanted to begin the conversation with boys and young men because I view this problem as multigenerational, and it seems to me that we need to start with the youth. We also need to decouple a man’s self-worth from his earning power, a power often out of his control. A man is more than his occupation. JediProf: We could start by refusing to gender certain behavior or personality traits. If someone is aggressive, just call it aggressive, not masculine. If someone is nurturing, just call it nurturing, not feminine. We need to abandon classifying the world according to masculine and feminine categories, which are inventions of society. MIB: Yes, the entire language around issues of masculinity (and, perhaps, femininity) needs to change. How do we do this? How does one start to build a new way to speak and think about a subject so ingrained? I don’t know. Mr. Florentino: I cried as I read this. My son — a high school and college wrestler who achieved much success on the mat — is one of the most sensitive souls I know. But far too often, I cheered his masculinity, his fierceness, and his muscles. I should have been cheering his kindness, his empathy, and his innate ability to be gentle. Those emotional qualities are what REALLY make him strong. MIB: I am very interested in a fuller expression of male strength. Physical strength is great (I wish I had more of it, because I would like, for once in my life, to look good shirtless on a beach). But a man’s strength can be expressed in innumerable ways, including the strength to be vulnerable, the strength to ask for help, to seek forgiveness, to display empathy. By all means, root for your son, but root for his entire being. It sounds like you’re doing that.