This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Hourly pay rose for every wage group last year — high, middle and low. The biggest raises went to low-income workers. And the pay gap between men and women shrank. An annual report card on American pay has just come out this morning, and it is dominated by good news. Real wages (that is, after adjusting for inflation) not only grew last year, they tended to grow for demographic groups that are paid less. Does President Trump deserve credit? Largely not. Last year’s trends started in 2015, before he took office. The job market has finally become strong enough in the last few years that companies have had to raise pay to attract and keep workers, up and down the wage spectrum. Another important cause in 2017 were minimum-wage increases, thanks to new laws in 14 states. In another seven, the minimum wage rose because it was indexed to inflation. Ultimately, I hope all states move to an indexed minimum; it is the only way to prevent the minimum wage from effectively declining every year. As encouraging as the new report is, its author — Elise Gould of the Economic Policy Institute — told me that people should not be confused by the big picture. The recent pay raises for the poor and middle class don’t come close to erasing the inequality in pay increases of the 21st century. High-income workers have still done much better since 2000 than middle- or low-income workers. And the Trump tax law will worsen the situation. But a year of good news is still worth celebrating. A couple of other details from the report: Women’s median hourly wage rose to 84 percent of men’s median wage, up from 78.3 percent in 2000. “The gap has essentially been cut in half since the 1970s,” Gould said. A big reason is that women have become more educated than men, and more educated workers earn a large premium. African-American workers were the one big group that didn’t narrow its disadvantage in 2017. It’s a deeply disturbing trend: The median African-American hourly wage was 74.6 percent of the median white wage, down from 79.2 percent in 2000. (Related: On the 50th anniversary of the Kerner Commission report, a Times Op-ed today looks at the state of racial inequities in America.) You can read the Economic Policy Institute report here. Guns. Dick’s Sporting Goods won’t sell assault-style weapons anymore, and Richard Thaler — the most recent Nobel laureate in economics — says you should support the move by buying your sporting goods at Dick’s. “Reward them by shopping. A reverse boycott,” Thaler wrote. Crawford Kilian, a retired writing teacher, praised the clarity of the prose in the Dick’s news release: “Clearly and concisely expressed. A+.” Ariel Edwards-Levy, a polling expert at HuffPost, notes that substantially more Americans favor companies distancing themselves from the N.R.A. than the reverse. “And here’s why you just saw a lot of businesses dumping the NRA,” she tweeted, alongside a screenshot of the poll numbers. What should we make of Trump’s apparent embrace of gun control yesterday? It’s another sign that the student activists have shifted the gun debate. But televised meetings don’t matter for their own sake. Action matters. Let’s see what, if anything, Congress and Trump do.