Capt. Tran Ngoc Hue was awakened by the sound of fireworks. It was 1968, at the start of the Tet holiday in Vietnam. Shaking off sleep, he realized that the sound was actually incoming artillery, and that his hometown, Hue, was under attack. He bundled his parents, wife and daughters into the family bunker, kissed the girls goodbye, commandeered his father’s bicycle and pedaled off toward the sound of the fighting. The Tet offensive had begun. Tran, an officer in the Army of the Republic of Vietnam, linked up with one platoon of his command, the Hac Bao Company, outside a nearby airfield, where he and 40 men managed to hold off the entire North Vietnamese 800th Battalion for several hours. They then retreated through Hue’s alleys and byways, dodging larger and better armed enemy units, and linked up with the command post of ARVN’s First Division. Marooned in the northeast corner of Hue, the command post numbered only 150 men, mainly clerks, cooks and doctors. Tran did what he could to organize a defense, but the situation was growing dire as three battalions of the North Vietnamese Army joined the assault. The battle degenerated into hand-to-hand fighting, with the ARVN perimeter shrinking to a few small buildings before a relief force finally broke through. Tran Ngoc Hue and his men had held out, but just barely. The fighting had been brutal; there were so many N.V.A. dead piled up all around and festooning the barbed wire that their bodies had to be burned. Advertisement As bad as it had been, though, it was about to get worse. As part of the wider Tet offensive, two entire N.V.A. regiments had seized most of Hue, Vietnam’s ancient capital, leaving only the First ARVN command post in the north and an undermanned post of the Military Assistance Command Vietnam in the south holding out as islands in the military storm. The N.V.A. had come to stay, and the struggle for Hue had just begun. Confusion abounded in the American and South Vietnamese command structures; Tet had struck like a thunderbolt, and it took time to sort out what was going on across the Vietnamese countryside. At first reinforcements trickled into Hue, but, as the situation became clearer, ARVN units were called to the command post in the north, while American Marines linked up with the MACV outpost in the south. With the imminent threat of losing the entire city having passed, thoughts now turned to routing the North Vietnamese. Dug into the walls and towers of the Hue Citadel and transforming the buildings of the city into a complex defensive network, the N.V.A. made ready to fight to the last man. It took nearly a month of intense fighting in an urban hellscape to retake Hue — a victory symbolized by the recapture of the Imperial Palace by Tran Ngoc Hue and the Hac Bao on Feb. 24, 1968. Tran and his men had been among the very few engaged in the struggle from its opening moments to its bloody conclusion. This weekly newsletter includes eyewitness accounts, rare photos and historical insights about the Vietnam War. Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Chronicled in books and movies, the battle for Hue has rightly gone down in the lore of the United States Marines, who single-handedly liberated the southern part of the city and fought an epic battle in the northern Citadel, with 147 of them killed in action. The South Vietnamese role in the fighting, though, is all too often missing from the story. In actuality, ARVN did the bulk of the fighting in Hue, losing 357 in battle and killing 2,642 N.V.A. and Vietcong fighters. It was their city, their capital, their battle. The struggle for Hue during Tet 1968 was arguably ARVN’s greatest victory of the war — a victory too often denied its proper place in history. The fighting in Hue, and the wider Tet offensive, is best understood in a Vietnamese context. The attacks were not, strictly speaking, aimed at American forces; they were aimed militarily at ARVN, and psychologically at the South Vietnamese national will. The American military fought gallantly as part of Tet, from Saigon in the south to Khe Sanh in the north. But, as in Hue, the bulk of the Tet fighting fell to ARVN, with South Vietnamese forces suffering two-thirds of the estimated 12,000 allied casualties in the overall campaign. Within this broader context, Tet was even more of a spectacular failure for the North Vietnamese on all levels. The Communists had long contended that ARVN was a puppet force that would collapse when faced with real military pressure. But ARVN fought hard and well during Tet, besting the Communists at every turn. Making matters much worse for Hanoi, the South Vietnamese had not risen up in support of the North even though the vicious fighting left 600,000 of them refugees. With their Tet plan in tatters, the Communists were left to rethink their war effort, and their vision of what South Vietnam really was. Within the broader context of the Vietnam War, more than anything else Tet indicated South Vietnam’s resilience and military competency after nearly 14 years of conflict. While ARVN usually receives little notice in the West, and is usually dismissed as doomed to failure, the Tet experience hints at something deeper and different — a difference reflected in some perhaps startling numbers. Advertisement The Army of the Republic of Vietnam was huge, numbering over a million men toward the end of the conflict in a nation of just 18 million souls. During the war ARVN had over 200,000 dead, and perhaps four times that many wounded. About one of every five soldiers, or almost one of every 20 adult males in the country, was killed or wounded in service with ARVN. Such percentages would have resulted in the Americans having a military of over 11 million men and suffering two million dead in Vietnam. Numbers and comparisons in such cases are always tricky and laden with complex meaning. But suffice to say that these very basic statistics indicate that, while not always fighting well, ARVN fought long and hard in the service of its country. And the number of men who served indicates that, while the South Vietnamese often chafed under the ham-handed rule of their government, there was a deep reservoir of military support for a non-Communist nationalism. For South Vietnamese soldiers like Tran Ngoc Hue, the Tet offensive was neither beginning nor end. Tran had entered the Vietnamese National Military Academy in 1961, graduating and taking his first combatant command in 1963. Unlike most American servicemen, whose tours of duty in Vietnam lasted a calendar year, Tran Ngoc Hue endured a brutally long war. He led his men into battle year after year until he was severely wounded and captured by Communist forces during the invasion of Laos in 1970. Tran spent the next 13 years first in North Vietnamese prisoner of war camps and then undergoing re-education. After his release, Tran spent the next eight years living under close surveillance, a type of house arrest. He finally emigrated to the United States in 1991. Like any military, ARVN suffered from cases of poor leadership and was sometimes bested on the battlefield. But, as perhaps best demonstrated by the fighting in Hue, ARVN also included stalwart leaders like Tran Ngoc Hue and, more often that not, defeated North Vietnamese and Vietcong forces in battle. It was not foreordained to defeat. Instead, ARVN was a complex institution serving a young and imperfect state. Understanding ARVN’s true place in history, its real strengths and weaknesses, is key to understanding the eventual outcome of the Vietnam War. Andrew Wiest, a professor of history and the founding director of the Dale Center for the Study of War and Society at the University of Southern Mississippi, is the author of “Vietnam’s Forgotten Army: Heroism and Betrayal in the ARVN.” Subscribe to the Vietnam '67 newsletter. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 