Hope Hicks’s resignation, Jared Kushner’s security-clearance downgrade and the gun-control debate appear to have very little in common. But they are in fact connected to a larger problem: President Trump’s lack of control over the White House and, consequently, his weakness as a president. Presidents have a high-profile role in lawmaking and foreign policy, but a third function, executive administration, is arguably the most important. The job of carrying out the law provides the executive branch with incredible amounts of discretion. But the executive branch is not subject to the president’s dictatorial control. Presidents compete with numerous actors — Congress, the courts, interest groups, political appointees in the departments and agencies, and career civil servants — for influence. Effective management of the White House is a precondition for presidential power and influence in the executive branch. Weak presidents routinely get rolled by the priorities and goals of competing actors. Mr. Trump has experienced this regularly. Military leaders publicly ignored his policy pronouncements. Business “allies” didn’t think twice about abandoning him after he made controversial comments. His cabinet secretaries contradict him on administration policy and may have developed secret pacts of authority. None of this means significant policy change isn’t happening in the executive branch; indeed, there is ample evidence of a strong conservative shift in many agencies. There’s just little reason to believe Mr. Trump is anything but a bystander. Richard Neustadt, author of the seminal 1960 book “Presidential Power,” described it as “the power to persuade.” The president must rely on his informal ability to convince other political actors it is in their interest to go along with him, or at least not stand in his way. A president’s chief resource in this regard is what the Washington community thinks of him. Mr. Neustadt called it the president’s “professional reputation.” Is he tenacious in achieving his goals, or does he often fail to follow up? Does he understand the levers of bureaucratic power, or can he be secretly rolled and be none the wiser? Are people who cross him punished, or can he be safely ignored? Mr. Trump’s professional reputation in the Washington community is historically awful. Members of his own party routinely dismiss his ideas and joke about his ineptness. The White House staff consistently leaks unflattering portraits of him. Virtually everyone believes he needs to be extensively managed. Embedding loyal staff members is a key component of presidential influence over the executive branch. But Mr. Trump has lagged other presidents in filling executive branch positions, large numbers of posts are still empty, and his White House has seen record-breaking staff turnover. In seeking to influence the executive branch, the president is not without help. He relies on what the political scientist John Hart called the “presidential branch” — which consists of almost 2,000 staff members, several hundred under the White House proper and the rest in a variety of management organizations (National Security Council, Council of Economic Advisers, Office of Management and Budget) within the Executive Office of the President. The advisers in the Executive Office and White House offer the president unbiased information and advice that serve his agenda. At least in theory. In practice, they pose a particular danger to a weak president. The political scientist Jonathan Bernstein has detailed how executive governance suffers in the absence of presidential leadership and can empower rogue policy entrepreneurship. As examples, he points to the policy debacles of Iraq under George W. Bush and the Iran-contra scandal under Ronald Reagan. The Executive Office advisers not only have discretion over the information the president receives but also have opportunities to derail presidential proposals before they can even see the light of day. Effectively managing the White House has been a challenge for all modern presidents. One prerequisite is an ability to articulate a policy vision and persuade senior advisers to develop and carry it out. Mr. Trump’s visible lack of control over the White House is in part rooted in his lack of firm policy beliefs — about immigration, gun control or foreign policy. Chaos is rampant in the Trump White House largely because the president is weak and easily manipulated by those who have access. A mismanaged White House, a poor professional reputation and a weak presidency are not impossible to fix. Like Mr. Trump, other first-year presidents have had trouble adapting to the power dynamics of the White House and the Washington community. While some never recovered from disastrous starts (Jimmy Carter), others found their footing and became widely influential over the executive agencies (Bill Clinton). Unfortunately, the current state of the White House already reflects the most obvious fix Mr. Trump could make: bringing in a more empowered and competent chief of staff. By most accounts, John Kelly had succeeded in improving the information flow, removing some of the key factional actors and reducing the leaks. A more experienced White House hand could probably do better, but at this point it isn’t clear Mr. Trump could attract that sort of A-list talent. If the president is unwilling or incapable of getting control of the White House, he will continue to find his reputation lacking and his ability to influence the executive branch minimal. That may be enough for Mr. Trump, who often seems driven by anything but the desire to influence policy. But a weak president is not something to cheer. Set aside the dangers of a weak leader engaging in risky foreign policy to try to improve his public standing. The modern executive branch relies on competent leadership; in its absence, it inevitably begins to decay.