This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. “President Trump,” Axios reports, “is in a bad place — mad as hell about the internal chaos and the sense that things are unraveling.” Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law, lost his top-secret security clearance and appears to be in legal jeopardy. Hope Hicks, one of Trump’s closest confidants, is quitting. H.R. McMaster, the national security adviser, may be leaving, too. Trump is openly feuding with his own attorney general. And Ben Carson, Trump’s housing secretary, is scrambling to return a $31,000 office-furniture order that he charged to taxpayers. “We have never seen top officials this concerned, defeated,” Axios added. How should the rest of us feel about all of this chaos? On the one hand, we should welcome it. The Trump presidency is damaging the country. He’s refusing to protect the United States against attack from Russia. He’s playing into the hands of China’s leaders. He’s trying to worsen economic inequality and climate change. To the extent that Trump is failing to execute his plans, the country is better off, as Eliot Cohen, the Republican foreign-policy expert, has noted. On the other hand, an angry, even desperate Trump has the potential to cause all kinds of problems, through a foreign crisis or the firing of Robert Mueller, the special counsel. It’s possible that the current round of White House chaos will recede. Until it does, though, Americans should be prepared for things to get even more chaotic. Related: The political scientist Matt Glassman, a regular presence in this newsletter, explains White House dysfunction in a Times Op-Ed. And The Times editorial board examines the intrigue in the house of Trump. A gun loophole. Changing gun laws is obviously hard. So activists have smartly begun focusing their efforts on the private sector as well as federal policy. This week, several national chains, including Walmart, have responded to pressure and announced new restrictions on gun sales. But there is another important step that private companies should take. They should promise not to sell a gun to anyone who doesn’t pass a criminal background check. And, yes, the law currently allows sales to some people who do not. Here’s how: In 1994, the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act began requiring criminal background checks for all guns sold by licensed sellers. (This is different from the broader background checks, which would also cover gun shows and private sales — and which public-health experts strongly favor.) The Brady law gave law enforcement five days to conduct the background check. The National Rifle Association — showing it wasn’t so concerned about criminals getting guns — lobbied to reduce the window to one day. Ultimately, Congress settled on three days. It turns out that three days aren’t enough time to conduct every background check. Millions of guns are sold every year, and background checks can be complex, spanning federal, state and local data. Last year, about 310,000 federal background checks — or 3.6 percent — were not completed in three days, according to ThinkProgress. When that happens, the gun seller can decide whether to go through with the sale or not. The 2015 mass murder in a Charleston, S.C., church, for example, was committed with a gun bought after an incomplete background check. “Current public policy,” as Kristen Rand of the Violence Policy Center says, “prioritizes transferring guns into buyers’ hands above public safety.” Some gun sellers do the right thing. A Walmart spokesman told my colleague Ian Prasad Philbrick that the company had not allowed a sale after an incomplete check for years. But it’s unclear how many companies follow the same policy. The best case is that Congress closes this loophole and requires a gun buyer to pass a background check, even if it takes more than three days. But I hope the new generation of activists don’t wait for Congress. All gun sellers should be pressured to declare their policy publicly — and change that policy if they’re selling guns to potential criminals.