Confession: I am suffering from fury fatigue. I’m exhausted by the daily scandals of the current administration, ground down by the school shootings, by the government’s inaction and by pictures of our empathy-free commander in chief grinning during his visits to the wounded, thumbs lifted, as if he had just cut the ribbon on a used-car sales lot. There have been so many shocks that it’s hard not to go numb. So I guess I should be grateful to Weight Watchers, for helping me tap back into my reserves of fury. Last month, Weight Watchers announced that this summer it would offer free memberships to children as young as 13. The news release talks up “wellness” and “healthy habits for real life.” Stacie Sherer, senior vice president for corporate communications at Weight Watchers, told me in an interview that the company’s mission was to “make wellness accessible to all,” to talk not calories but mind-set, to help clients manage their weight over a lifetime and to give teenagers “a framework to make healthier decisions” about food and activity. You could almost believe that the company was preparing to change its name from Weight Watchers to Self-Esteem and Healthy Habits Central. Social media was skeptical of the free-membership plan. Instead of well-intentioned wellness-based altruism, some people, including registered dietitians and program veterans, saw Weight Watchers as cynically cultivating the next generation of young women to get an early start on the join-lose-regain-rejoin cycle that many dieters experience, at an age when studies show that young women are at the highest risk of developing eating disorders. “I wish someone had told me as a teen I was worthy and lovable no matter what my size was and that I didn’t need to lose weight to feel those things,” tweeted Sarah J. Thompson. “Maybe I wouldn’t have struggled so long with an eating disorder.” That hit me hard, because I did have someone to assure me of my dignity and my worth when I was a teenager. Her name was Madeleine L’Engle, and her book “A Wrinkle in Time” starred an outcast, lonely girl named Meg Murry, who faces off against an enemy called IT, an unspeakably evil form with the goal of cultivating complete conformity in behavior and belief and appearances. “I give you your faults,” a celestial being called Mrs. Whatsit tells Meg, before sending her off on her quest. Ms. L’Engle’s message is that Meg’s prickly personality, her “two ferocious lines of braces,” her glasses and plain face, are her secret weapons, that a lifetime spent being different is what will give her the strength to resist. In Ava DuVernay’s much-anticipated Disney movie adaptation of the book, which comes out Friday, Meg is being played by an African-American actress. That’s huge: It’s thrilling, and important, for all children to see a story where a young black girl saves the day. What’s less inspiring is the Hollywood makeover that Meg’s three mentors received. In the book, their appearances range from frumpy to “little more than a shimmer.” In the movie, they’re played by Reese Witherspoon, Mindy Kaling and Oprah Winfrey, who was cast, Ms. DuVernay has said, not in spite of her celebrity but because of it. In an interview, the director said that the character of Mrs. Which embodies what Ms. Winfrey has taught over the years “about owning your light and conquering darkness and how we have to power ourselves through this life in a certain way and look out for each other.” But are young filmgoers going to know Ms. Winfrey as the SuperSoul Sunday light-bringer, the warrior for women who told an exultant Golden Globes audience that “what I know for sure is that speaking your truth is the most powerful tool we all have”? Or will they recognize her as the woman handing out tacos in Weight Watchers ads, above text listing how many pounds each fiesta-goer has lost? Ms. Sherer, of Weight Watchers, gave a firm “absolutely not” when I asked if the timing of the Weight Watchers announcement had anything to do with the release of the film. But when the board member/part owner/celebrity endorser of a commercial weight-loss program stars in a movie aimed squarely at young women — the same demographic that her program is trying to tempt with free memberships — what’s the message? Is it love yourself, faults and all, or is it that maybe there should be a little less of you to love? I’ll take my daughters to see “A Wrinkle in Time” and cross my fingers that they’ve somehow escaped those Weight Watchers commercials, along with the idea that celebrations, and tacos, are reserved for women who fit themselves into society’s narrow constraints of pretty. I’ll hope that one version of “IT” — the pervasive, pernicious notion that thin equals happy — doesn’t hook them in, the way it hooked me, that they won’t spend their 20s on a diet. Because what I know for sure is this: I wish I had treated my body with love and respect, rather than blowing money I didn’t have on a futile effort to fix it. I wish that I’d respected my body’s strength and health, and insisted that the world needed to expand its views of what was acceptable much more than I needed to shrink. I hope the movie will bring girls back to the book. I hope they’ll get to read about how Meg digs deep to find her courage, thinking, “As long as I can stay angry enough IT can’t get me.” Maybe that’s the answer, as outrage fatigue threatens. We need to keep paying attention, even when the temptation is to check out; to stay vigilant in defense of our democracy from those who would seek to subvert it and fierce in defense of our daughters from those who’d try to set them up for a lifetime of misery and profit from their unhappiness. Stay angry enough, and IT won’t get us, either.