LOS ANGELES — About 18 months ago, an executive at a cable network asked for a meeting with me. I’d written and directed a short film about a Muslim teenager that had found an audience on the internet, so I was feeling especially confident. The executive and I spoke about my upbringing and how I made the film. Then he asked about what I wanted to do there, at his network. I’m a writer and a director, but for the purposes of that meeting, I needed to be clear: I want to direct for television. The tenor of the conversation shifted. He said that breaking into the field would be very difficult, and that I should consider a diversity program — a “shadowing” program for directors without television experience who come from backgrounds that are generally underrepresented in Hollywood. The goal would be to gain a practical understanding of a set, and an opportunity to make connections. I was taken aback. He had asked for this meeting. I felt, suddenly, that he did not see me as a filmmaker ready to take on television but as a woman of color who needed a “program” so that, one day, I might be really ready. I blurted out, “I don’t believe these programs teach you how to direct,” and he immediately backpedaled. Of course, he said, that’s not what he was saying. He was just trying to be helpful. That was then. Last October, I was location scouting in Chicago for my feature film, “Hala,” based on my short film. The news about Harvey Weinstein had just come out. Inside the scout van, I saw the #MeToo movement taking shape online. Every day, it seemed, there were new allegations of sexual misconduct being brought against prominent men in entertainment — actors, agents, producers. Every day, a new name was trending on Twitter. Police reports were being filed. Women were bravely taking their stories to the media. For the first time, the ugly truth of our business was being exposed. When I returned to Los Angeles at the end of the year to edit the film, the atmosphere felt different. In January, the red carpet conversation at the Golden Globe Awards shifted from self-promotion to heartfelt expressions of solidarity. Natalie Portman’s introduction to the best director award announcement — “Here are the all-male nominees” — became a viral moment, and Time’s Up, a movement founded to fight sexual harassment and inequity, burst onto the scene in full force. Meanwhile, I had 10 weeks to edit a feature-length film. I lost a lot of sleep, missed a trip to Japan and a friend’s wedding in Mexico. These are the things one does when making a movie. But even as sheltered as I was during the edit, I could see a palpable difference in how women in Hollywood were talking to one another. Male friends and colleagues also had to stop and think harder about the imbalances of power in the industry, and their own possible role in perpetuating them. Filmmaking is a collaboration, and often you need a gatekeeper’s approval to move forward. Sometimes the gatekeepers are coming at your story, experience and filmmaking from a very different perspective than your own. Sometimes, you’re justifying your story’s worth. That is part of the dance of what are called “general meetings” — 45 minutes or so spent in offices making polite conversation with executives on the very slim hope of landing a job. You go from room to room, passionately pitching, and usually all you leave with is free water. I used to work as an assistant at a talent agency, and I knew that a lot of studio executives would accept general meetings with our writer and director clients just to make themselves appear to be doing their job, or to preserve their relationships with agents. For women of color there’s another wrinkle. There’s a feeling that these meetings are a means for executives to feel better about themselves. Yes, we met with a woman of color today, they can say when their boss asks what they’re doing about diversity. And then the follow-up: But she’s doesn’t have enough experience. Let’s wait to see what she does next.  I imagine these conversations taking place all over town, over and over again, as the depressing statistics for women behind the camera stay the same. A study by researchers at the University of Southern California shows that 4 percent of the most popular films in 2016 were directed by women, only slightly better than in 2009. So conversations and awareness are not proof of actual change. I did end up doing a diversity program after all, through Ryan Murphy’s Half foundation. I shadowed an incredible director on “American Horror Story,” who taught me so much about the practical realities of filmmaking on a bigger scale, staying on schedule, and working with established talent and collaborators. She ended up endorsing me for membership in the Directors Guild of America — whose director membership is only 15 percent female. The numbers are much worse for women of color. Armed with this experience, I had a second meeting with the executive who had suggested a diversity program. Everything about this meeting felt essentially the same as the first, except there were two female executives in the room this time. I told them: Now that I’ve done this program, I can say with confidence that I don’t believe in separate pipelines. White men don’t have to go through diversity programs to get jobs, so why should anyone else? Men are frequently hired because of potential, while women are hired based on their previous experience.  As I talked to these executives, I thought about how important it is now for women to speak up about harassment, lost opportunities, and to fight for what they’re worth. From an outside perspective, that might appear selfish. So more women get writing and directing opportunities — what will that change for other women? The answer is that it changes everything. More female stories leads to more representation onscreen. For too long, women have been sidelined in our business, told that we are not experienced, worthy or qualified enough. Time’s up on sexual harassment and abuse, but it’s also up on gender discrimination, inequity and condescension. It’s not enough to have a conversation, panel, seminar or workshop. It’s not enough to be “aware.” Women know how to do their jobs. It’s time to hire them. Of course, I didn’t actually say all of that in the room. Sitting across the table from the same man who had told me I wasn’t ready not that long ago, I felt stronger and more confident. It wasn’t just because of the experience I’d gained. It was that I no longer felt alone. What I said was: I’m ready. I think that meeting went well, for what it’s worth.