On the campaign trail, Candidate Trump promised to drain the swamp in Washington. Last Thursday, the swamp showed how powerful it really is. In a sort of crony-capitalist reality TV broadcast, President Trump, flanked by steel and aluminum executives, granted their requests for tariffs. The announcement itself — which outlined a plan for 25 percent tariffs on steel and 10 percent on aluminum — was no surprise. Last summer, consistent with his longstanding hostility to free trade and globalization, the president exclaimed, “Tariffs, I want tariffs.” Mr. Trump, in the White House, summoned steel and aluminum tycoons for a “listening session.” It wasn’t the first time some of America’s top executives came hat in hand to Washington in search of privileges. But it may have been the first time we got to watch live as an American president announced to the world that he would gladly help handicap our domestic producers’ foreign rivals — by taxing the Americans who buy steel and aluminum imports. Mr. Trump and other protectionists justify tariffs by proclaiming that they will protect American workers from highly subsidized Chinese companies that sell their steel and aluminum at low prices in the United States market. Never mind that we import more steel from 10 other nations than from China, or that domestic steel’s market share represents an impressive 70 percent. Nor is it a national security issue: Only 3 percent of that production goes toward the military. Never mind that domestic steel profits and production have steadily risen since 2010, or that we already have more than 160 special duties on steel imports in place. These moguls demanded more protection and obtained satisfaction. Decades ago, the Nobel Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman argued that businessmen themselves are among the biggest dangers to a free-market economy. They often seek government privileges to increase their profits and avoid competition. Indeed, import taxes — putting aside rhetoric about defending jobs — are well-known to have devastating effects on consumers. They are quite effective at lining the pockets of shareholders in protected industries. We’ve seen this before. In 2002, President George W. Bush implemented his own steel tariffs. As expected, the taxes jacked up the price of domestic steel and temporarily boosted the industry’s profits. Steel-consuming industries, however, weren’t so lucky. According to an estimate from the nonpartisan Trade Partnership Worldwide, a staggering 200,000 people lost their jobs in downstream industries by the following year. That’s more workers than the entire steel industry had at the time. According to the United States International Trade Commission, other serious consequences of the tariffs included difficulties obtaining steel in the quality and quantity desired, a shift to sourcing finished parts from overseas, and relocating domestic steel-consuming facilities abroad. Does that sound like what’s best for American workers and consumers? Instead of bringing jobs back to America and fighting off imports, the tariffs led to more jobs shipped abroad and more imports of final, rather than raw, goods. In other words, if your company uses steel to make pipes or refrigerators, you may decide to simply produce your own products abroad rather than paying artificially inflated prices on steel in order to make them in the U.S.A. Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, recently reminded the president of the negative impact of the 2002 import taxes. Mr. Trump dismissed it as a byproduct of the Bush administration’s incompetence. But this president doesn’t have the power to change the laws of economics. Like President Bush, Mr. Trump will raise the cost of doing business in steel- and aluminum-consuming companies. In turn, it will make life much harder for the 6.5 million workers those industries employ. Many will lose their jobs — possibly more than the 170,000 workers currently employed in the steel and aluminum producing industries. Adding insult to injury, the president is comfortable with the knowledge that his import tax will make our cars, infrastructure, soda cans and aircraft more expensive. And he’s flat-out wrong when he claims, “Maybe it’ll cost a little bit more, but we’ll have jobs.” As the Department of Commerce’s own report shows, the decline of jobs in the steel and aluminum industries predates the competition with China by decades. Industry experts know that this is mostly because of innovation and industry consolidation. The era of labor-intensive metal production is over. And Mr. Trump may think a tariff-induced trade war would reduce our trade deficits, as he gleefully tweeted the day after the announcement, but don’t count on it. In the unlikely event that the import tax would incentivize foreign companies to set up shop in the United States, these investments would very likely increase the United States trade deficit. It would prompt foreigners to buy fewer American exports in order to accumulate the dollars needed to fund these investments. No one doubts that Beijing doles out special privileges to Chinese exporters, but the way to answer Chinese cronyism isn’t to expand American cronyism. Chinese cronyism comes at the expense of other Chinese producers and consumers. We shouldn’t imitate their behavior by hurting our own consumers. A better path forward is to allow the World Trade Organization to settle the dispute or go back to the Trans-Pacific Partnership’s negotiating table. It’s been done before, and it can be done again.