Renee Beavers, a social worker in Connecticut, visits mothers — and a few fathers — who have young children and substance use disorders. Her clients in the state’s Family Stability Pay for Success Project spend intensive time with Beavers and the others on her team: three visits of up to an hour each week, for at least six months. Beavers makes sure the children are safe, does a supervised drug screening — she or a male counterpart goes into the bathroom and watches the client urinate in a cup — and then talks with clients about parenting, and about quitting drugs. Combining drug treatment and parenting programs in the home, where there are no transport or child-care barriers, not only protects children. It also takes advantage of a drug user’s key motivation to get well. “Being able to parent a child is the primary positive reason for sobriety,” said Karen E. Hanson, who teaches social work at the Yale Child Study Center and developed the methods the project employs. “We’ve heard many times, ‘I really was not worth stopping for, but my child was.’” The clients earn $8,544 per year on average. Most of them are white. Most have a mental health issue such as depression, alongside their substance use problem. In Connecticut, as elsewhere, drug use is soaring. “We know that’s highly correlated with cases in which we may seek to remove a child and place them in foster care,” said Elizabeth Duryea, chief of staff of Connecticut’s Department of Children and Families. If the project can help children stay with their parents, that saves taxpayers money. Keeping a child in foster care costs $92 per day, not counting other services, Duryea said. Connecticut started with six teams like Beavers’s in 2007, and added four more in 2013. Hundreds more families needed the program, but there was no money. So the state turned to an unusual new source of funds: private investors. The organization Social Finance US helped the children’s agency set up a social impact bond to fund six more teams beginning in 2016; that was enough to serve 500 additional families over four years. The bond works like this: A group of private and philanthropic investors, led by the European bank BNP Paribas, put up $11.2 million. The agency set specific goals: Clients should have more clean drug screens, fewer reports of child mistreatment and fewer foster care placements, compared to a control group. The better clients do, the better investors do. If the program fails to meet its targets (the University of Connecticut Health Center will evaluate it), investors can lose all their money. If it succeeds, Connecticut repays the investors, with interest. The state will also have saved money, by reducing the number of foster care placements. Many people can call themselves captains of industry. Sir Ronald Cohen is a five-star general. He is one of the pioneers of venture capital in Europe, and perhaps the single most important global figure in the use of private money for social good, also called impact investing. “The evolution in thought started to occur a few decades ago, when we began to talk about social entrepreneurship,” Cohen said in an interview in London in February. “But we’d actually failed to connect social entrepreneurs with the capital markets.” Cohen has founded or led numerous organizations seeking to use private capital to solve social problems. One is Social Finance UK, which he co-founded in 2007. Social Finance put together small tests of new financing mechanisms. The group knew private investors who wanted to make an impact, and charities eager to try new ways to deliver services. Social impact bonds elegantly knit them together. Investors chase financial returns. Where is the financial return in fighting poverty? In spending a little on prevention — and saving a lot later. “That was the key to the capital markets,” said Cohen. The first social impact bond began in 2010 in Peterborough, England. Investors funded a program aimed at keeping newly released short-term inmates out of prison. It reduced reoffending by 9 percent compared to a control group, exceeding its target. So investors got their money back, plus interest. Seldom has a policy idea gone viral so fast. There are now 108 such bonds, in 24 countries. The United States has 20, leveraging $211 million in investment capital, and at least 50 more are on the way. These bonds fund programs to reduce Oklahoma’s population of women in prison, help low-income mothers to have healthy pregnancies in South Carolina, teach refugees and immigrants English and job skills in Boston, house the homeless in Denver, and reduce storm water runoff in the District of Columbia. There’s a Forest Resilience Bond underway that seeks to finance desperately needed wildfire prevention. Here’s how social impact bonds differ from standard social programs: They raise upfront money to do prevention. Everyone knows most prevention is a great investment. But politicians don’t do “think ahead” very well. They hate to spend money now to create savings their successors will reap. Issuing a social impact bond means they don’t have to. They concentrate resources on what works. Bonds build market discipline, since investors demand evidence of success. They focus attention on outcomes rather than outputs. “Take work-force training,” said David Wilkinson, commissioner of Connecticut’s Office of Early Childhood. “We tend to pay for how many people receive training. We’re less likely to pay for — or even look at — how many people get good jobs.” Providers, he said, were best recognized for their work “when we reward them for outcomes they want to see and families they are serving want to achieve.” They improve incentives.  Focusing on outcomes changes the way social service providers think. In Connecticut, said Duryea, they now have a financial incentive to keep children out of foster care, rather than bring more in. They force decision makers to look at data. Programs start with great fanfare, but often nobody then examines how they are doing. But with a bond, evaluation is essential. They build in flexibility. “It’s a big advantage that they don’t prescribe what needs to be done,” said Cohen. The people on the ground choose the strategy, and can change it if necessary. “Innovators can think outside the box and tackle health or education in revolutionary ways,” he said. There’s no shortage of projects suitable for bond financing. And the federal budget passed on Feb. 9 contains $100 million in competitive funding for “pay for success” programs. Much of it will go to evaluations of promising programs to identify what works. The investment capital is there as well; as with impact investing in general, there’s a lot more money than attractive investments. “Lots of our projects have been oversubscribed,” said Tracy Palandjian, the chief executive of Social Finance US. The Boston project for immigrants had 40 investors. The limiting factor is the reluctance of governments, which are not always innovators. The bonds also have a reputation for being time- consuming and hard to set up. Palandjian said that the real problem is gathering data on how well programs work — something governments should do anyway, bonds or no bonds. So far, two bonds have failed. The first American one had sought to lower recidivism among inmates released from the Rikers Island jail in New York. The second was a British bond that tried to increase adoptions. When the programs didn’t work, investors lost their money. On the other hand, there was no cost to the governments. Cohen points out that this way of financing also allowed unsuccessful programs to die, instead of plodding on for years, unevaluated. In the United States, social impact bonds have become synonymous with “pay for success” programs. But there are other ways to pay for success. For example, Wilkinson, the Connecticut official, has just started an Outcomes Rate Card — a way for a government to pay for home visits for vulnerable families. The social service agencies get base pay, but also bonuses. If a client has a full-term birth, the agency gets an extra $135 for a low-risk family, $170 for a hard-to-help one. A client who finds stable housing brings $150 or $220 to the agency, depending on the family’s situation. A rate card doesn’t provide upfront money. But it’s easy to use, and allows the government to work with multiple social service providers. “It’s a simple, understandable way to show that government can invest in what families, providers and taxpayers want to see,” said Wilkinson. “It allows government to say: ‘Here are the results we want and here’s what we’ll pay for them.’” Social investing is now mainstream, a guiding principle for trillions of dollars in assets. That money, however, has been available to only a small group of people. Social impact bonds can begin to change that. “The broad impact investing movement typically benefits entrepreneurs around the world who can come up with different ways of doing business,” said Palandjian. “Pay for success,” she added, “has brought state and local governments into the impact-investing world. It brought in people who run homeless shelters and do job training: ‘If I’m good at what I do, I can access the capital markets.’”