Charleston, W.V. — Jim Justice is known as a fiercely competitive coach in this town, dedicated to the Greenbrier East High School girls’ basketball team. He is also the state’s governor, who switched from Republican to Democrat when he ran for office, then back to Republican last year. Now he is presiding over one of the longest and most divisive teacher strikes in recent history. When people from outside West Virginia ask why the strike, now in its second week, has gone on so long, one answer is that Mr. Justice — the man who, as the state’s leader, should be out in front on the issue — isn’t doing much leading. It might be unfair to say that he’s shirking his gubernatorial duties to spend time on the basketball court. But the optics aren’t good. On Feb. 27, Mr. Justice announced to the press that the striking teachers and service personnel — an estimated 37,000 of them — would return to the classroom two days later. Then he excused himself for his 7 p.m. tipoff. (In case you’re wondering, Greenbrier East lost to George Washington High School, 90-81, and the teachers didn’t return to the classroom.) His absence has been noticeable during office hours, too. Over the last week thousands of teachers, school service personnel and their supporters have poured into the Capitol in Charleston to let the world know they want raises and viable health insurance. But Mr. Justice was hard to find. A striking teacher who came to the Capitol held a sign that read, “I’m here more than Jim.” The lack of leadership has left a vacuum for opportunists to fill, and hapless legislators to fall into. The state attorney general, Patrick Morrisey, a Republican, is most likely rubbing his hands together, ready to file any paperwork necessary to make life even harder for teachers. Getting tough on teachers and calling the strike illegal might help Mr. Morrisey as he challenges Senator Joe Manchin, a Democrat, in the fall. Meanwhile, the strikers have also focused their ire on the State Senate president, Mitch Carmichael, a Republican, chanting “Ditch Mitch” inside and outside the building. Last week Mr. Carmichael didn’t help himself when he had to walk back a pay raise bill he mistakenly submitted: House members passed a 5 percent raise (something Mr. Justice and the teachers had negotiated); Mr. Carmichael submitted that version, though he meant it to be 4 percent. When observers in the chamber witnessed him withdrawing that bill, they jeered. He had the sergeant-at-arms remove them from the gallery. On Sunday, West Virginia Education Association leaders sponsored a forum in Jackson County, part of Senator Carmichael’s world. They invited him, but he didn’t show up, according to The Charleston Gazette. The whole scene reveals how little regard our politicians have for one of their state labor force’s largest chunks. Phil Kabler, statehouse reporter for the ailing Gazette, wrote, “The current party in power does not regard teachers and working people as constituents or colleagues, but as adversaries.” And so what began as a last-step tactic to achieve quick results has devolved into a slow grind. In the first hopeful days of the strike, teachers held signs that read, “Honk if you support education.” Drivers laid on the horns. But as the strike and the chaos linger, some drivers are staring at the potholes, not the teachers on the sides of the roads. The crisis is not just the loss of classroom days. In this poor state, most students eat breakfast and lunch at school. Before the strike, every Friday, teachers and volunteers would fill backpacks for students who go home to scant cupboards. To make up for this loss, many teachers and volunteers are pitching in at community the state while the strike continues. Mr. Justice’s attempt to resolve the crisis may actually make things worse. He suggested that money to support the teachers’ sinking state-sponsored insurance plan could come from the passage of a completely separate bill that, many believe, would fall heavily on landowners. The proposal has been roundly denounced; a person at a town-hall meeting told Mr. Justice: “You want us to sign off on stealing other people’s property, so these people can get a fair deal on their insurance, that’s sick.” Pitting West Virginia landowners against West Virginia teachers is not the answer. I hope this does not represent Coach Justice’s best thinking, this late in the game. In this poor state, getting poorer daily from every soul we lose to drugs, we need teachers who can guide our students into successful, healthy futures. And that means we need leaders who are willing to listen to them, and even give up a basketball game or two.