There are conservatives, including the president of the United States, who take a special kind of glee in the declining ratings for the Academy Awards, which hit an all-time low this weekend under the stewardship of Jimmy Kimmel and in the shadow of hideous revelations about the film industry’s tolerance for rape. You’ll get no glee from me. The decline of the Oscars is overdetermined: It’s nobody’s fault and everybody’s, shaped by the same trends driving down Big Event ratings all over and the same diversification of tastes and values and ideas, plus all the technological and economic shifts undercutting the old studio business models, all the inevitably shortsighted choices made by philistines in SoCal corporate suites, and all of our collective decisions to watch or not to watch what Hollywood churns out. But it is still a decline to be regretted, a loss not only of entertainment and spectacle but also of the cultural common ground that our last mass-market art form once supplied. The key problem for the Oscars is not, as Hollywood’s critics on the right sometimes suggest, that the movie industry’s liberal politics are dragging down both box office numbers and Oscar ratings — that the desire to preach is swamping the desire to entertain. There is a political problem, but it is secondary: The key issue for the academy is that the Hollywood system no longer produces enough of the kind of movies that a mass-audience awards spectacle requires. The ideal Oscar nominee is a kind of high-middlebrow work, a mix of star power and strong writing and gripping storytelling that at its best achieves great artistry (as happened often in the 1970s, less often in other eras) but even if it falls short maintains a certain level of quality joined to broad, dare-one-say populist appeal. The classic Hollywood genres, from gangland movies to historical epics to literary adaptations to Westerns and war movies and musicals, were all calibrated for this zone, and when the calibration was successful, the Oscar nominators had a lot of material to work with that was at once popular and pretty-good. To pick a representative year from my adolescence, in 1996 the academy nominated five movies for Best Picture — a classic-novel adaptation and romantic comedy in “Sense and Sensibility”; a historical epic-war movie in “Braveheart”; a work of can-do Americana in “Apollo 13”; and then an ingenious children’s movie in “Babe” and a foreign film in “The Postman” (“Il Postino”). The foreign movie made “only” about $21 million in domestic United States box office (still a large haul for a subtitled movie); the other four made about $354 million combined, with “Apollo 13” the easy leader. Adjusted for today’s ticket prices, that works out to well over $700 million in contemporary dollars between them … … which is more than the total earned by the nine movies nominated for Best Picture in 2018. The winner, “The Shape of Water,” is the most popular trophy-getter in five years — and its current box office take is just $58 million. What has happened in the intervening years is well known to everyone. The combination of a global audience (which doesn’t necessarily relate to a lot of old-Hollywood genres and tropes), the ease of substituting special-effects work for storytelling, the ascent of geek culture and the lure of online life and the flight of talent and viewers to the ever-expanding realm of prestige TV have turned Hollywood into a comic-book blockbuster industry with an Oscar-bait subsidiary. The result is a cinematic common culture increasingly reduced to Marvel sequels and other genre remakes and reboots and spinoffs. Half the Top 10 highest-grossing movies in 2017 were superhero movies; you have to go 13 spots down the list, to Pixar’s “Coco,” to find a movie that isn’t based on a “presold” pop culture property. This is the landscape from which the academy has to pick its nominees, and it basically offers them a choice between mass-market mediocrity and the more rarefied fare that now dominates the Oscars. Could the voters do a better job sifting through the reboot-remake mediocrity to find high-grossing jewels? Perhaps: A list of nominees for this year’s Oscars that included “Logan” and “Blade Runner: 2049” might have boosted the nominees’ popular appeal without sacrificing quality. But there’s already been a respectable attempt to nominate the better genre efforts, from “Mad Max: Fury Road” and “Arrival” (probably the best movies of their respective years) to this year’s garlands for the low-budget racial horror of “Get Out.” And there’s little to be gained from having the academy go down the same path as certain fanboy (or bullied-by-fanboys) critics and ask us all to pretend that “Wonder Woman” was more than just a fun vehicle for the charismatic Gal Gadot, or that “The Last Jedi” really deserves its absurd 90 percent “fresh” rating on Rotten Tomatoes, or that Marvel’s assembly-line showcases are actually good movies the way “Sense and Sensibility” or “Apollo 13” or “Braveheart” were. But the alternative to such a lowering of standards, as the sharp Hollywood observer Richard Rushfield notes, is an Oscars that increasingly resembles the Independent Spirit Awards — which in turn tends to politicize the awards beyond the movie business’s usual broadly liberal bent. One of the virtues (both civic and artistic) of the old mass-audience, high-middlebrow model was that it forced Hollywood to temper its own partisan inclinations because of the size of its intended audiences, to produce tacitly conservative Big Movies as well as liberal ones and reward them both at Oscar season. (That reliable right-wing favorite “Braveheart” won in the year I cited earlier, and the prior year’s undeserving but entertaining winner, “Forrest Gump,” wore a Reaganite conservatism on its simpleton hero’s sleeve.) This tempering still happens in the superhero factory (despite being marketed as event movies for the woke, films like “Wonder Woman” and “Black Panther” play it safe with their political messages), even if there the goal is sometimes appeasing Red China rather than Red America, and of course a certain kind of pulp entertainment will always tend to skew right-wing. But the more the only plausible Oscar nominees in terms of cinematic quality are passion projects and message movies — the kind of movies, to quote Kimmel, that are made “to annoy Mike Pence” — the more the film industry’s inevitable liberalism seems less one reliable theme of Oscar season than the symphony entire. For some people in the movie business and the press that covers it, this may seem like a happy evolution, a shift toward more of a vanguard role in pursuing social change, with fewer political compromises and greater moral clarity in what messages the academy offers to the world. But even if, as is fervently hoped, we are entering an age of stronger minority and female representation in cinema, without the mass audience that high-middlebrow cinema once enjoyed that representation’s influence on the American imagination will be limited. “Lady Bird” is a lovely mother-daughter movie and may God send many more female-centric movies like it — but 35 years ago a little mother-daughter movie called “Terms of Endearment” won Best Picture and made the equivalent of $300 million, numbers that only superhero movies tend to hit today. Michael B. Jordan and Chadwick Boseman of “Black Panther” are talented and charismatic, but they ultimately serve the superhero brand, and they are unlikely to gain the kind of black stardom-in-its-own right enjoyed by Eddie Murphy and Denzel Washington. No matter how much more enlightened the movie industry becomes, what was 20th-century America’s most influential and unifying mass art form is increasingly a business of niche markets and lowest-narrative-denominator blockbusters … and it is not only conservatives who might reasonably regret that shift. Like many cultural rituals the Oscars are peculiar and arbitrary and frequently absurd, but like many they have supplied a thread of unity and memory and shared experience for the millions who watch them every year. For the show to become a boutique affair for American liberals that’s sponsored by a globalized superhero content provider is not, I think, a happy change — and for all that it seems overdetermined and inevitable, it’s a transformation that filmmakers and moviegoers and academy members, in all their various ways, should still make an effort to resist.