The announcement that President Trump’s top economic adviser, Gary D. Cohn, plans to resign after apparently losing a battle over raising tariffs ratchets up concern that the White House is turning sharply toward protectionism. The deepest fear is that the planned steel and aluminum tariffs will echo the mistake of the infamous Smoot-Hawley tariffs of 1930, which provoked a global trade war and helped fuel the Great Depression. The alarmists are getting a bit ahead of the story, however. Periods of deglobalization — when nations begin shuttering their borders to flows of trade, money and people — tended to be slow processes, not sudden events. They started with tectonic shifts — global wars and crises — not minor import levies. And they unfolded over decades, not years. The last era of deglobalization actually began when countries turned inward after World War I, more than a decade before Smoot-Hawley and the Great Depression. It is important to view Mr. Trump’s latest trade actions in that historical context. The suggested higher tariffs on steel and aluminum are too narrowly targeted to trigger a trade war but represent another chapter in the evolving era of deglobalization. This era began long before Mr. Trump took office, but he is now capitalizing on the popular backlash against globalization. The mood turned decisively after the Great Recession of 2008. Trade collapsed as a share of the world economy, and despite some pickup in the past two years, trade has yet to recover to its pre-crisis level. One big reason: the barriers that countries like India and Russia have been raising to block the flow of trade, money and people at their borders. In every year since 2010, the leading economies have instituted more discriminatory trade measures than liberalizing ones, according to data from Global Trade Alert. The difference with Mr. Trump is that he is reviving the old-school and easily detected weapon of the tariff. Many other countries have been using a wide array of non-tariff barriers. Some are stealthy, like hidden subsidies for export industries. Others are blatant, like barring foreign competitors outright. Though the world is now a decade into this age of deglobalization — with flows of money and migrants also running well below the peaks reached before 2008 — it’s an exaggeration to compare Trump’s tariffs to a tipping point like Smoot-Hawley. Steel and aluminum represent only 2 percent of United States imports, and so far Mr. Trump’s proposal bears less resemblance to the sweeping Smoot-Hawley tariffs than to the more narrowly targeted Fordney-McCumber tariffs that preceded it. In the early 1920s, European farms were recovering from World War I and emerging as a competitive threat to American farmers, who began lobbying for protection. Fordney-McCumber began as an attempt to answer the farmer’s demands, but once tariff rates were opened up for discussion, other industries like pharmaceuticals demanded and received protection as well. We are at a similar point now: The deglobalization process is underway, in which pressure from other industries, voters and politicians to enact additional tariffs may grow. The outcry for higher tariffs could really intensify if the economy takes a serious turn for the worse, as it did after the stock market crash of 1929. Then, factories shut down and unemployment spiked. That led to the passage of Smoot-Hawley, which triggered a sharp reaction from foreign governments. Global trade slowed sharply and did not fully recover until the 1970s. Today, however, the world economy looks much more like it did in the 1920s than in the depressed ’30s. Unemployment and inflation are low, growth is reasonably strong, inequality is back to levels last hit in the 1920s, and the mood is shifting against globalization. Still, the clamor for protection could grow significantly in intensity. The obvious concern: If Mr. Trump is pushing tariffs during good times, just imagine what he might do if the times turn bad. That’s when governments normally become even more protectionist, and this administration is already moving in that direction. The decision by Mr. Cohn, the head the National Economic Council and a staunch defender of free trade, to leave the administration is clear evidence of the trend. The next chapter in this period of deglobalization may revolve around how Mr. Trump deals with China. If the world’s two largest economies fall into a spiral of tit-for-tat retaliation, the global trend toward trade protection could pick up pace. China is a minor supplier of steel and aluminum to the United States but a major supplier of much else. In the global financial markets, many observers are thus less concerned about the steel tariffs than about the Section 301 investigation launched by the Trump administration against China, which goes well beyond earlier investigations into illegal subsidies for export manufacturers and other stealth trade protection. Instead, the 301 investigation — named after the section of the Trade Act of 1974 that gives the president great leeway to address trade issues — is a broad look at Chinese practices such as investing in American companies to steal technology, penetrating American data networks and lifting technology from American companies that invest in China. In short, the current controversy over steel and aluminum tariffs involves old industries that are shrinking as a share of the global economy and affect about 2 percent of global trade. Even if Mr. Trump’s suggested new tariffs provoke Chinese retaliation in these industries, it would have a manageable impact. A broader trade conflict involving newer sectors such as technology, or that leads to restrictions on foreign investment, could be much more damaging. Of course, this is not the first time in the postwar era that an American president has resorted to trade protectionism. Richard Nixon fought his 1968 election campaign on a mercantilist platform. Both Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush imposed trade tariffs. The difference then was that America exercised more dominance over the global economy and had greater reason to believe it could squeeze concessions from trading partners. Rising powers such as China are not likely to be as compliant now, and even allies in Europe seem to feel less obliged to placate America. Regardless of how far Mr. Trump goes in pressing tariffs against both rivals and allies, it is important to remember that this is not the beginning of the story, or the end. We are somewhere in the middle. The seeds of discontent against globalization were sown following a period of intensive trade and migration that culminated in the financial crisis of 2008. The age of deglobalization is now a worldwide phenomenon that is larger than Mr. Trump. It was coming whether he won election or not. And it is unlikely to end until long after he is gone.