In his campaign, Donald Trump stressed “America First” economic nationalism. But in his first year in office, the theme languished. So when he recently announced that he intended to impose steep tariffs on steel and aluminum, Republicans were as surprised as anyone. The conservative press and right-leaning think tanks were outraged. The director of the National Economic Council, Gary Cohn, resigned in protest. Conservatives and free-market theorists could forgive Mr. Trump many sins, but to actually flirt with economic nationalism was inexcusable. For 25 years, free-trade orthodoxy has been a bipartisan consensus among America’s policy elite. Conservatives might editorialize about it more, but liberal presidents arguably advanced free trade the most, from Bill Clinton’s signing of the North American Free Trade Agreement to Barack Obama’s negotiation of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. (George W. Bush, by contrast, put tariffs on steel, though he did so without the trade-war rhetoric that Mr. Trump has relished.) With his signing on Thursday of a tariff order, Mr. Trump appears once again to be setting himself against the mandarins of both parties. That has been a politically successful strategy for him in the past. But while his approval ratings may benefit from a brawl over trade, the more important question is whether economic nationalism is any good for the country. In principle, it is. Economic nationalism differs from free-trade ideology in having three distinct goals rather than one. The first isn’t discussed very often in a time of relative global peace: maintaining the industries necessary for prevailing in a large-scale war. The Civil War might have had a different outcome had the North not possessed an overwhelming advantage in industrial capacity over the Confederacy. Likewise, there would not have been a Western Front in World War II if the United States had not had the industrial strength to back Britain’s defiance of Nazi Germany. That the United States could wage war on Germany and imperial Japan simultaneously was a function of the rapidity with which civilian industry could be adapted for military needs. The United States had the raw resources, the energy capabilities and the factories necessary to conduct a two-front war. Such capacity in the service of national defense will sooner or later be needed again. Strength has to be held in reserve. The second goal of economic nationalism is no less important than being prepared for the exigency of war. From the time of the Constitution’s drafting, American statesmen have seen the need to preserve a middle layer in the nation’s economic order. As far back as Aristotle, a secure middle class has been thought essential to the well-being of a constitutional republic. Such a middle class is hard to imagine in a postindustrial nation consisting of a tiny capital-controlling elite and a vast population of Amazon warehouse workers. That a sort of postindustrial middle class might be sustained by universities and hospitals, as it is in places like Pittsburgh, is not a comforting thought to the conservative kind of economic nationalist. Productive industries with a measure of trade protection are still private, profit-seeking firms; in short, they are capitalist institutions, which hospitals, in effect, and universities, in most cases, are not. Economic nationalists are intent upon protecting not only certain industries but also a multilayered free-market political and economic order that is anchored by a healthy middle class. The third objective of economic nationalism is the most general and the one that most closely matches the aims of free-market ideology: namely, to foster prosperity. Economic nationalists do not accept the claims made by extreme free-traders that any degree of industrial protection must inevitably lead to less national wealth. But so what if it does? If the price of national security and a durable, free middle class is a modest reduction in gross domestic product, the economic nationalist is willing to pay it. Free-traders are not indifferent to national security nor blind to the benefits a nation derives from having a middle class. But the priority of goods is different: Free-traders tend to believe that only by making economic efficiency the supreme goal of public policy can those other ends be achieved. Division of labor produces greater wealth, and so free trade makes everyone better off, with the harm to those whose manufacturing jobs are lost outweighed by the good that comes from, say, cheaper flat-screen televisions. Dollars decide. The figures are the outward and visible signs of the fundamental economic truth. The middle class, by this reckoning, must take care of itself, finding new ways to make a living if the factories close. With more wealth available in the aggregate, thanks to the efficiencies of trade and specialization, some happy outcome is sure to materialize. If we cannot say what it is, that only means that spontaneous order has a pleasant surprise in store for us. As for national security, exceptions might have to be made; even The Wall Street Journal has recently editorialized against the takeover of the United States communications chip manufacturer Qualcomm by the Singapore-based Broadcom on national-security grounds. But free-trade ideologues say exceptions should be made only case by case, with the benefit of the doubt falling on the side of trade and foreign deals. To free-traders, economic nationalism is simply unnatural, an effort to artificially prolong the lives of aged industries. And since technology eliminates more jobs than trade does, the free traders ask, is the economic nationalist’s next step Luddism? The fact that technology reduces well-paid industrial employment is no reason to reduce it further through open trade policies. And the example of China today, as well as that of the United States in the 19th century, shows that preference for domestic producers does not have to mean fossilization. Nationalist economies have some of the world’s most impressive records of growth and technical advancement. Tariffs are not magic. Sometimes the unintended consequences at home and retaliation from overseas can be devastating. But trade wars, like shooting wars, shouldn’t be avoided with pre-emptive surrender, which is what the free-trade regime amounts to for America’s long-term security and middle-class prosperity. Steel towns throughout the Northeast and Midwest have been losing a trade war for decades because they cannot count on their leaders in Washington to fight for them. Free trade is a clear and simple rule, and the economic theory of which it is a part is elegant and logical. But it is only a partial truth. The value of the middle class has to be weighed in political terms, not merely economic ones, and national security has a strategic logic all its own that springs from different and darker assumptions about human nature than the hopeful logic of economic efficiency. To reduce public policy to a single dimension, as free-trade ideologues do, is foolish and dangerous. Yet it is attractive because it provides definite answers to difficult questions, even if those answers are less than complete. Economic nationalism, on the other hand, requires constant balancing and adjustment if it is to be pursued correctly. Mr. Trump’s steel and aluminum tariffs may not work. But they are a first attempt at finding an alternative to a free-trade system that has built up the People’s Republic of China while hollowing out the factory towns that once made America great.