It’s hard to tell who started it. Was it the populist right, reared in the meme swamps of Reddit and 4chan, who emerged blinking into the daylight of politics and set about baiting anyone who disagreed with their chosen Republican king? Or was it liberals, cozy in their elite enclaves on the coasts, who burrowed down into self-righteousness, lecturing working-class Republicans about how they misunderstand their own interests? Modern American political discourse can seem disjointed to the point of absurdism. But the problem isn’t just filter bubbles, echo chambers or alternative facts. It’s tone: When the loudest voices on the left talk about people on the right as either beyond the pale or dupes of their betters, it is with an air of barely concealed smugness. Right-wingers, for their part, increasingly respond with a churlish “Oh, yeah? Hold my beer,” and then double down on whatever politically incorrect sentiment brought on the disdain in the first place. These two terrible tendencies now feed off each other, growing stronger every day: the more smugness, the more satisfying it is to poke holes in it; the more toxic the trolling, the greater the sense of moral superiority. The result: an odoriferous stew of political rhetoric that is nearly irresistible to those on the inside and confusingly abhorrent to those on the outside. The explosion of the smugs-versus-trolls phase of our political discourse is traceable to a 2004 confrontation between Jon Stewart and the political commentator Tucker Carlson in the waning days of “Crossfire,” in which Mr. Stewart dropped his comedian persona and accused Mr. Carlson and his ilk of undermining serious discourse with their partisan feuding and made-for-TV talking points. “Stop hurting America,” was his specific request. Mr. Carlson sputtered and fumed; it was generally agreed that Mr. Stewart won the day. Around the same time, a New York University psychologist, Jonathan Haidt, was formulating a theory about why liberals and conservatives have such a hard time productively conversing. After mucking around in a lot of survey data, he came up with this basic idea: Liberals and people of the left underpin their politics with moral concerns about harm and fairness; they are driven by the imperative to help the vulnerable and see justice done. Conservatives and people of the right value these things as well but have several additional moral touchstones — loyalty, respect and sanctity. They value in-group solidarity, deference to authority, and the protection of purity in mind and body. To liberals, those sincerely held values can look a lot like, in Dr. Haidt’s words, “xenophobia, authoritarianism and Puritanism.” This asymmetry is the fountainhead of mutual incomprehension and disdain. Much of Dr. Haidt’s subsequent work has been trying to find ways to bridge this political empathy gap, to foster ways of thinking about each other that will minimize polarization. But he is swimming against the political current. For many on the right, the real lesson of the Stewart-Carlson exchange was “Do as I say, not as I do.” Mr. Stewart urged sincerity and good-faith efforts at dialogue when lecturing Mr. Carlson but practiced the opposite when it suited him. Mr. Stewart’s smugness was itself a form of trolling. And conservatives, no matter what liberals might think of them, are not stupid. The clear lesson was if you want to win, stop being the debate team kid in the bow tie and start being the class clown who gives that guy a wedgie. Mr. Stewart has since retired from the ring, having replicated himself a dozen times over on every channel, each copy smugger than the last. But Mr. Carlson, too, has triumphed. He now hosts one of the top-rated shows on Fox News, where he has become a shouty populist version of his former mini William F. Buckley Jr. persona — much closer to the trollish partisan Mr. Stewart accused him of being than he ever was in his “Crossfire” days. And the rest of the movement has evolved — or devolved — alongside him, from the organizers of the Conservative Political Action Conference who invited Marion Le Pen and Sheriff David Clarke, to the campus conservatives who’ve doubled down on their strategy of inviting Ann Coulter and her spiritual descendants to speak to the very audiences likely to be most outraged by them. For many campus conservatives, the invitations are driven by a sincere desire to give their values an airing and set off debate. It is, of course, also fun to annoy people who disagree with you. Ironically, or perhaps predictably, tonal tensions are escalating at a time when actual policymaking has ground nearly to a halt, with budgets and major legislative packages hopelessly stalled in Congress after Congress. The attempt to find common ground over the “Dreamers” — the group of undocumented immigrants who came to the United States as children — for instance, ultimately involved a brief shutdown of the federal government and a near miss of one. The left labeled the right racist; the right accused the left of hating America. No substantive policy change resulted. So maybe it makes sense that political squabbling across much of America has become increasingly aesthetics-focused and content devoid: It’s no coincidence that at the moment the alt-right leader Richard Spencer was sucker-punched on camera, he was explaining the elaborate in-joke signaled by his Pepe the Frog lapel pin. Nor that when Russians allegedly tried to meddle in the last presidential election, they chose to do it in meme form, with Facebook ads featuring Jesus and the Devil arm wrestling over the prospect of a Hillary Clinton victory, or promoting “Buff Bernie” pro-L.G.B.T. coloring books. Differences remain as fundamental as ever, but the way we talk about them is so superficial as to have become incoherent. But that has done little to restrain the all-consuming ferocity of the fighting. Nor have the consequences been restricted to the internet. The tonal differences go all the way to the top: If Barack Obama’s “cling to guns or religion” statement was a perfect distillation of the smug style in liberal politics, Donald Trump is impeccably suited to an increasingly post-ideological Republican landscape where the point-scoring is the prize. One of the primary reactions to this new framing of the political debate has been exactly what you’d expect: Many sane, self-respecting people no longer want anything to do with either side. Barely half of the respondents to the last round of Gallup’s long-running question about partisan affiliation could bring themselves to pick a party at all, with just 28 percent identifying as Republicans and 27 percent as Democrats. (Happy start of midterm season!) And even when Gallup tried to force people into bicolor boxes, by asking the 46 percent identifying as independents which way they lean, the totals still come only to 46 percent on team red and 44 percent on team blue. It is from the reluctant partisans and the remaining 10 percent of stalwart independents that hope must spring. The notion that there are sensible political coalitions to be had outside of partisan paradigms is a cherished American idea. Some of the people abandoning standard labels are liable to make things worse by racing to the bottom — think “the dirtbag left” of the “Chapo Trap House” podcast or even the alt-right. But there are other longstanding principled transpartisan coalitions that might be due for reconsideration: Think cosmopolitan libertarianism or Blue Dog Democrats. These coalitions can form, however, only if they can find a space outside of mainstream politics’ compulsive, addictive, downward rhetorical spiral. In the meantime, “Don’t feed the trolls” is a sound piece of advice — and one that is nearly impossible to follow.