This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. The sugar problem. If you live in the United States, you probably eat more sugar than is good for you. It’s probably not your fault, either. Added sweeteners are infused into a shocking number of foods. After I wrote a year ago about my own efforts to eat less sugar, I heard from many readers who were interested in doing the same. So I have written a guide that The Times has just published. If you follow its recommendations and want to tell me how it goes — or have your own ideas for how to eat less sugar — write me at Leonhardt@nytimes.com. My column today puts the sugar issue into a larger political context. It’s called “Big Sugar Versus Your Body” and is a much quicker read than the guide. For anyone who wants to dig more deeply into this topic, try the work of Marion Nestle of N.Y.U., including her book “Soda Politics,” and the work of Laura Schmidt of the University of California, San Francisco, medical school. Turnout versus persuasion. I recommend the op-ed about the missing Obama voters that ran in The Times this weekend. I also have one reservation about it. The op-ed — by four researchers — says that 7 percent of Obama voters in 2012 didn’t vote in the 2016 election. Mobilizing these voters, the researchers write, “is the most important task for progressives.” I agree that increasing voter turnout is a huge opportunity for Democrats, given the low rate at which many left-leaning groups vote. But I also think Democrats need to be careful about putting too much emphasis on turnout and not enough on winning over swing voters. That’s a real risk. As the op-ed notes, the missing Obama voters are overwhelmingly progressive in their policy aims — which makes it very tempting for progressive activists to focus on them. Doing so doesn’t involve any policy compromises. It’s a close cousin of the pundit fallacy: the tendency to confuse one’s own policy wishes with good political advice. There are two big reasons Democrats need to spend a lot of energy winning back Obama-to-Trump voters, who the authors said represented 9 percent of 2012 Obama voters. One reason is math. Each effectively counts twice as much as a missing Obama voter, because they didn’t just disappear. They voted Republican. The second reason is Congress. Taking back either the House or Senate will require winning races in conservative and moderate parts of the country. Mobilizing the Democratic base can help enormously. But it probably won’t be enough. Whenever you find yourself believing that doubling-down on your own policy views makes for savvy political advice, it’s worth thinking again, with an extra layer of skepticism. Again, I recommend the piece. It’s by Sean McElwee, Jesse Rhodes, Brian Schaffner and Bernard Fraga. Nate Cohn also has criticisms of it. Josh Mound offers a way to thread the needle: A populist economic agenda. Finally, David Remnick, in the lead essay in the new issue of The New Yorker, explains why this debate matters so much: The next American election is a referendum on Trump’s illiberalism.