This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Good morning, and welcome to Election Day — at least in one congressional district, in southwestern Pennsylvania, which is holding a special election that feels like a referendum on President Trump. The 18th district is a mix of coal country and Pittsburgh suburbs, and it leans strongly Republican. Both Trump in 2016 and Mitt Romney in 2012 won it by almost 20 percentage points. Yet the Democrat nonetheless has a real shot to win. Why? Trump’s unpopularity is the main reason. But the strength of the Democratic candidate — Conor Lamb, a 33-year-old former Marine and prosecutor — also matters. He has run to the political middle on cultural issues (like guns and abortion) and to the left on economic ones (like trade). I’m not endorsing all of his stances, but I think he has the right approach for a Democrat in Trump country. Many white working-class swing voters are not really moderates. They are more of a mix — progressive on pocketbook issues while being quite conservative on guns, abortion and immigration. Democrats can win over a good number of these voters by nominating candidates who fit their district, rather than those who pass every progressive litmus test. And when these less liberal Democrats make it to Congress, they still vote with their party the vast majority of the time. For example, Obamacare probably would not be law today — and millions of people would not have health insurance — if Joe Manchin, the centrist Democratic senator, weren’t representing West Virginia. Democrats will have a much better chance of retaking the House this year if their party has room for people like Manchin and Lamb. Also on the Pennsylvania race: • The final polls show Lamb with a small lead. But don’t take that literally. Polling special elections in the House is really hard, as Nathaniel Rakich of FiveThirtyEight notes. Pollsters need to estimate who will turn out to vote, which is notoriously tricky in a special election. (This one is being held because the former House member, an anti-abortion Republican, allegedly urged his mistress to have an abortion.) • The experts I spoke to yesterday said they wouldn’t be surprised by any modestly close outcome, with either candidate winning. Harry Enten of CNN and G. Elliott Morris of The Economist say that even a narrow loss would be a very good sign for Democrats, given the district’s strong Republican tilt. • Some nervous Republicans — including Trump, Axios reports — have started engaging in premortems, claiming their candidate, Rick Saccone, is the problem. Don’t believe it. “The ‘Saccone is terrible candidate’ excuse is silly,” writes Amy Walter of the Cook Political Report. Saccone is a former Air Force officer in his fourth term in the Pennsylvania state Legislature. • In The Times, the Editorial Board says the race is a reminder that Democrats should run a candidate in every district, while my colleagues Gail Collins and Bret Stephens discuss the race in one of their regular conversations. • Finally, don’t believe hyperbole after the results. No matter what happens, it remains unclear which party will win control of the House in November. National Election Day is still almost eight months away.