Bret Stephens: Gail, last week’s big items of news were, first, Gary Cohn’s departure as President Trump’s top economic adviser; second, the steel and aluminum tariffs that reportedly prompted his departure; and third, Trump’s decision to meet face-to-face with North Korea’s Kim Jong-un to try to resolve the nuclear standoff. Ordinarily, liberals would be thrilled to see the architect of last year’s tax bill leave the White House, even while the president chooses diplomacy over belligerence with Pyongyang. And they probably might not entirely mind the tariffs, either. Yet I’m going to guess that you’re not jumping for joy. Am I wrong? Gail Collins: The North Korean thing is good news followed by the realization that this is never going to work out well. Sort of like your realtor calling to say there’s finally a buyer for your house, and then the second part is that it’s a commune of 1,000 people, each of whom has personally pledged to raise $500 begging on street corners. Bret: Agree, though in this case I’d say it’s like someone has agreed to buy your house, and you’d better sell it because the buyer will kill your realtor if you don’t, so you’d better shave 50 percent off your asking price. But go on. Gail: Sort of the same on the tariffs. I don’t have any problem with raising tariffs to protect specific industries that are being beaten up in the international marketplace. This one is “Huh? Aluminum and steel?” Cannot help but think it had something to do with that congressional election underway in Pennsylvania. Bret: If only it were that shameless! My fear is that Trump actually believes, as he tweeted the other day, that trade wars are good and “easy to win.” Gail: And when you hear the president saying that the North Korea negotiations will work because he has the support of China — producer of lots and lots of low-price steel — I just … crawl back under the bed. Bret: For the past year, I’ve felt that the country has been suspended over air like Wile E. Coyote in those gravity-defying seconds before he takes the plunge to the canyon floor. My conservative friends keep saying, “Look, it’s not that bad,” and my reply is, “Just wait.” Now the Trump catastrophe begins in earnest. Tariffs will beget international retaliation, until we really are in a trade war with consequences last witnessed in the 1930s. And whatever you thought of Gary Cohn, he was a moral and intellectual giant compared to Steve Mnuchin and Peter Navarro and the rest of the president’s economic brain trust. Gail: Yeah, Donald Trump — the man who made Gary Cohn a moral and intellectual giant. Like making “The Bachelorette” the artistic equivalent of “Pride and Prejudice.” Bret: Ha! As for North Korea, I see two theories: First, Trump has swiftly brought Kim Jong-un to his knees using sanctions that previously never worked; or, second, Kim knows a sucker when he sees one. Gail: I prefer a theory in which both men are idiots. Kim just babbled the stuff he always babbles, and suddenly Trump imagined he was back pretending to write “The Art of the Deal” and said, “Sure.” Neither even deserves credit for being a good plotter. But let’s go back to the tariff for a minute — the congressional Democrats are trying not to look supportive, but a lot of them actually like the idea. It’s the congressional Republicans who are really going nuts. Yet they’re not going to do anything, are they? The wimps. Bret: I wish I could believe that Kim is dim. But I don’t. North Korea has been selling us the same used car for 30 years, and it looks like we’ll buy it again. Maybe he’ll get Trump to remove U.S. troops from South Korea, while he’s at it. Don’t be surprised. Gail: Yes, North Korea has been saying the same thing for decades, and now suddenly we’re taking them up? What’s suddenly changed? Not Kim’s canniness, I think. But about those tariffs … Bret: On the tariffs, it was nice to see Paul Ryan seem upset by something the president did. Unlike, say, Trump’s comments on Charlottesville. And a lot of Republicans, especially in farm states, have pro-trade constituencies that really don’t like the protectionist drift coming from the White House. But will they do something? I doubt it. Presidents have vast authority over foreign policy, and trade is a part of that. Next thing Trump will do is try to kill Nafta — right in time for a Hugo Chávez-like figure to get elected president in Mexico. Gail: Trump did run on the tariff idea. I’m wondering how it plays in western Pennsylvania, where we’re watching the big special election to replace Tim Murphy, the Republican who famously fought against abortion while trying to make sure his mistress ended any unwanted pregnancies. The election’s being billed as a referendum on the president. What do you think will happen and will it have any national import? Bret: Well, Trump won the district by 20 points. If Rick Saccone, the Republican who is bidding to replace Murphy, loses to the Democrat, Conor Lamb, then Democrats can start thinking seriously in terms of a wave election. Gail: If Saccone squeaks in, I’m sure Trump will claim the victory. Which makes sense, I guess, given that Saccone is unexciting even for a state representative. And the president probably set a record Saturday for Fewest Mentions of the Candidate in a get-out-the-vote rally. Bret: Of course, Trump didn’t talk much about Saccone. He talked about his favorite subject: himself. And he unveiled his 2020 campaign slogan: “Keep America Great.” I don’t think he really cares very much about winning the midterms; he might even be happier if Democrats take the House or the Senate. It will give him something to rail against for the following two years. Gail: Now here’s someplace where I’ll bet we differ. The Democrat, Conor Lamb, is a very attractive candidate with a real genius for not saying anything exciting. He’s not exactly for raising the age for rifle purchases to 21, but he’s sort of open to discussing it in a bipartisan manner. He’s for improving the Affordable Care Act, but not any kind of universal coverage. On trade he’s for … something reasonable that’s popular with steelworkers. I don’t think there’s anything wrong with promising to vote against Nancy Pelosi — she’s been in there a long time. But I’d like to see more from the anti-Trump forces than just a sort of blah promise to be uncrazy. Bret: What would that be? Gail: The Democrats should come up with a real plan on health care that gets rid of the massive, wasteful bureaucracy we’ve got now. Maybe a version of Medicare for all, after all. And I would love to hear a conversation about the deficit that takes a serious look at waste. Particularly waste in the defense budget. And maybe an abortion-reduction program that makes family planning services easily available and free. Preferably this would all be delivered by some really exciting candidates — young would be nice, but old would be fine, too — just so long as they’re new. The nation is ready for a fresh 75-year-old face. Bret: I’m always for fighting waste, though I would start with Ben Carson’s dining set at HUD or Ryan Zinke’s $139,000 doors at the Department of the Interior. Your abortion-reduction plan sounds terrific to me, though on the larger health care question, I suspect what Americans want from that subject is to put it behind them for a decade or so. I guess I’m not against bland and boring and politics going together. We’ve had too much of spectacle and terror and freak shows. Oh, which reminds me of the one subject we didn’t raise today: Ahem, a certain liaison the president had 12 years ago, and a certain payment about it. Our colleague Michelle Goldberg made a powerful case the other day that Trump may have violated campaign finance laws. Wouldn’t it be something if the storm that brings this presidency down is, um, eponymous? Gail: Well, I generally don’t believe voters care much about sexual misdeeds as long as they’re getting what they want from the government. But as long as you can turn it into a campaign finance conviction, I’m good. You could be right that after this, the country will be yearning for boring leaders. Vote for X — He’s Dull as Dishwater! I can see it now. Maybe this means Mitt Romney really is coming back.