It seemed like a simple suggestion. Kristin Rose-Möhring, the equal opportunities officer for the German Family Ministry, proposed in a recent newsletter that the word “fatherland” in her country’s national anthem be replaced with the gender-neutral “homeland” — and in that same vein, that a line about people striving “brotherly” together might be rephrased as “courageously.” She suggested these edits in the spirit of International Women’s Day. The changes being, you know, more inclusive. Unfortunately, der Dreck hit the fan. “If you don’t like the national anthem from the politically correct perspective of all this gender nonsense,” crabbed the far-right party, the Alternative for Germany, “then don’t sing it!” The anthem, “Das Deutschlandlied,” literally “The Germany Song,” has had quite a career. It was adopted in 1922 but was embraced by the Nazis, especially that bit about the country “über alles” (which doesn’t quite mean what people think it means, but never mind). Since the 1950s, however, only the third verse is sung, and most of its sentiments — “unity and justice and freedom” — seem in keeping with the 21st-century version of that country as a modern, liberal democracy. As do the sentiments of replacing “fatherland” with “homeland.” But Chancellor Angela Merkel thought it prudent to nip the growing controversy in die Knospe. “The chancellor is very happy with our nice national anthem as it is,” a spokesman said. I think the German anthem is fine, as these things go, although I’m not sure I’d go as far as “nice.” When I think of people singing “Das Deutschlandlied,” I think of Victor Laszlo in “Casablanca” ordering the house band at Rick’s to drown out the German officers singing “Die Wacht am Rhein” with “La Marseillaise.” Compared with some other national anthems, though, the German one is fairly benign. The Algerian anthem, for instance, doesn’t mess around. “When we spoke,” goes one line, “none listened to us, so we have taken the noise of gunpowder as our rhythm! And the sound of machine guns as our melody!” Nothing like a song about the music of machine guns to bring a tear to one’s eye. For its part, the Italian anthem is a little grumpy as well, at least when it comes to Austrians. “The Austrian eagle has already lost its plumes,” one verse goes. “The blood of Italy and the Polish blood it drank, along with the Cossack. But it burned its heart!” I don’t know about you, but when it comes to expressions of national pride, the drinking of blood is totally on my bucket list. It’s bad form to cast aspersions upon the national anthems of other countries, however, without taking a good hard look at our own. And for the moment, let’s even hold aside the fact that “The Star-Spangled Banner” is a sentimental song about exploding bombs, inspired by a battle in the War of 1812. It’s the third verse that’s most problematic. That’s the one in which Francis Scott Key takes a swipe at the fugitive slaves whom the British recruited — with the promise of freedom — to fight on their side: “No refuge could save the hireling and slave from the terror of flight or the gloom of the grave.” Jason Johnson, a professor of political science at Morgan State University, put together a fine essay and video documentary on the racist history of the anthem for The Root, where he is the political editor. “I probably wouldn’t sing it anymore,” a young African-American student in the video says after a close reading of the lyrics. Another student says, “I take it as, ‘The Star-Spangled Banner’ wasn’t intended for black people.” For more context, I reached out to one of the song’s most loyal defenders, Dave Israel, who is not only a communications architect at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center but also a co-author of “1814! The War of 1812 Rock Opera,” which enjoyed a run in Washington and Baltimore a few years back. “When was the last time you heard anyone sing the third verse?” he asked, somewhat wearily. Mr. Israel is not blind to the problems of the third verse. Nevertheless, he encourages us to think about the big picture — and that includes civil rights. “‘The Star-Spangled Banner’ is really about the underdog hero who defies the odds and wins,” he told me. “It’s that scene in a movie when the big explosion happens, but when the smoke clears, the hero emerges to continue fighting the good fight. Francis Scott Key was witnessing the bombardment of Fort McHenry from a British gunboat and describing it from the perspective of that fan in the movie theater. At dawn, through the smoke, he catches a glimpse of the American flag. It’s a song about hope, especially when you think all hope is gone.” “What are the alternatives?” he asked. “‘America the Beautiful’? I love the song, but it is about America the place — purple mountains, spacious skies. ‘The Star-Spangled Banner’ is about America the idea. The triumph of hope and freedom. We are always trying to live up to that spirit.” And that spirit includes justice for black people — justice for anyone, in fact, who historically has been left out of the American idea. Mr. Israel’s musical, about the Battle of Baltimore, led to some of his cast being invited to the Maryland governor’s mansion after one performance, where Gov. Martin O’Malley poured a few beers and Mr. Israel and company made the case that the state anthem, “Maryland, My Maryland” should be replaced with the musical’s finale number, “A Big-Ass Flag.” If you think “The Star-Spangled Banner” is problematic, it’s nothing compared with “Maryland, My Maryland,” which is sung to the tune of “O Christmas Tree” and goes, in part: “Huzza! she spurns the Northern scum! She breathes! she burns! she’ll come! she’ll come!” Mr. O’Malley — who, it should be noted, was a whole lot better as governor than as a presidential candidate — resisted Mr. Israel’s plea to replace the anthem. So “Maryland, My Maryland” remains for now. But don’t worry, denizens of the Old Line State. At least there’s no blood-drinking.