No foreign photographer spent more time in Vietnam than Horst Faas, who oversaw photographers in Saigon for The Associated Press, who was based there from 1962 until late 1970 and then regularly returned until the withdrawal of American forces in 1973.  Despite being heavily wounded just before the Tet offensive — which did not stop him from going to the office on crutches during the attacks on Saigon — he survived the war thanks to a cocktail of fearlessness, Germanic common sense, good luck and wry humor. A burly man who “carried himself like a big rugby player,” according to the magazine photographer David Burnett, Mr. Faas was at ease with troops and unflappable under fire.  Here’s how he described his first combat mission, a helicopter-led charge with Vietnamese rangers into the Mekong Delta: “I jumped into the water, holding my two cameras above my head. I did not find the water cold despite the early hour. The mud at the bottom was even warm, which was not disagreeable. The soldiers started to run and shoot. I found the situation frightening, confusing, exciting and fascinating all at the same time. Unable to take cover, I suddenly remembered that I had come to take pictures and in several seconds I photographed the attack of the troops and their race across the rice paddies.” Rather than bemoan the tough conditions or, as some did, stick to the comforts of Saigon, Mr. Faas adapted. To protect his cameras and film, he designed a waterproof aluminum case — which, it turns out, also saved him from more serious injuries when he was hit by grenade fire in 1967. Instead, what often rankled him were the ethical issues that lay at the core of combat photography, like the appropriateness of depicting torture or the disequilibrium that came from being able to photograph only one side of the story. In a memo to the New York office of The A.P. early in 1964, he noted that photographers “could crawl to the forward trenches of a besieged outpost, wait beside riflemen in night ambushes, witness brutal interrogations and executions and merciless street fighting. While the enemy — the Vietcong and North Vietnam — operated in secrecy, American and allied troops and government civilians performed almost always under the probing eyes and lenses of newsmen.” It was that proximity that, with time, fed a growing skepticism of official reports of the war. Mr. Faas and his colleagues knew firsthand the truth behind the military’s misleading statements about battlefield success. The journalist Peter Arnett wrote to me to say that one of the main reasons that both he and Mr. Faas stayed so long in Vietnam was precisely because of “the growing credibility gap between the press and the American government’s views of the war. Horst, myself and others in The A.P. believed that our independent coverage of the war was vital to its understanding.”  To that end, Mr. Faas searched out the best freelance photographers, like Catherine Leroy, to supplement the output of A.P. staff photographers. He would hand out cameras to both local and foreign stringers, who became soldiers in “Faas’s Army.” David Burnett, a young American photographer who arrived toward the end of the war, noted that Mr. Faas would often buy pictures from young freelancers, even when he didn’t need them, “knowing that it would permit someone to keep working and, more important, if they scored a major photographic coup, The A.P. would be the first place they would come.” Mr. Faas had a tough job: He both managed the bureau’s photographers and worked as a photographer himself. Among his charges were the battle-hardened Eddie Adams, who had been a Marine photographer during the Korean War, and Nick Ut, who was hired by Mr. Faas in 1966, aged 16, the year after his brother, Huynh Thanh My, who was also an A.P. photographer, was killed in action. Mr. Ut, who was one of 11 siblings, started in the bureau as a darkroom assistant. “He was not only our boss,” he said of Mr. Faas, “he was also our friend and protector.” Mr. Faas never played favorites, and gave Mr. Ut the same chances he gave to foreign photographers: “Once Horst saw that I had talent, he said he could not stop me from being a photographer and he sent me out to cover the war.”   That faith was rewarded in June 1972 as a huge battle was unfolding west of Saigon, near the village of Trang Bang. Mr. Faas, who was back in Vietnam at the time, and Mr. Arnett had planned to team with Mr. Ut, but Mr. Faas was experiencing severe pain from his wounds during the night and decided not to go, and Mr. Arnett decided to stay in Saigon as well. So Mr. Ut went alone.  Several hours later, Mr. Faas and Mr. Arnett were having lunch when they were urgently summoned to the bureau to look at the eight rolls of Tri-X film that Mr. Ut had shot. Among them was an image of a naked 9-year-old girl, Kim Phuc, screaming in pain from napalm burns. The editor on duty that day had thought it was too explicit to send out on the wires But Mr. Faas decided otherwise.  According to Mr. Ut, Mr. Faas “had the clear thought and perseverance to say that he would use that image even though it had a naked young girl. The image was not about being nude, it was about the atrocities of war and how innocent children, people, suffer because of war.” By the time Mr. Ut took that photograph, Mr. Faas had been working in Vietnam for 10 years, and was becoming worn down by the toll the conflict was taking on Saigon’s photographic community. Hal Buell, a longtime A.P. editor, described how the “bond between the photographers was very tight and it went across the agency lines.” But Mr. Fass was particularly affected by the deaths of photographers from The Associated Press, including Bernard Kollenberg, Huynh Thanh My and Oliver Noonan. Mr. Faas had been in New York when the news of Huynh Thanh My’s death arrived by cable. Mr. Buell described to me how Mr. Faas walked to a desk put his head into his arms and wept.  Another leading A.P. photographer, Henri Huet, died in Laos in 1971, along with three other major photojournalists — Larry Burrows, Kent Potter and Keisaburo Shimamoto — when their helicopter was shot down over the Ho Chi Minh Trail.   Mr. Burrows and Mr. Huet were two of Mr. Faas’s closest friends. Mr. Burrows and Mr. Faas had known and admired each other from the earliest days of the war, and Mr. Faas considered Mr. Huet perhaps the most creative photographer working in Vietnam.  Their deaths left a deep scar. In 1998, Mr. Faas traveled to Laos with Richard Pyle, an A.P. Saigon bureau chief during the war, to search for the remains of their helicopter and somehow to give closure to their loss. (They found them.)  In 1993 Tim Page, a British photographer who was wounded four times during the war, approached Mr. Faas to help produce a visual memorial to the photographers who had died in Vietnam. Mr. Page had already managed to unearth a large number of works from photographers who had been documenting the North Vietnamese side. He and Mr. Faas set about gathering material from the families of the deceased photographers and from The A.P.; their book, “Requiem,” appeared in 1997. It is, Mr. Page wrote to me, “a bit of incense offered to all the intangible vibrations that still emanate from their images.” When the exhibition first opened in Hanoi in March 2000, Mr. Faas was amazed to see veterans from the war arrive with magnifying glasses to look at details in the photographs. His and Mr. Page’s only stipulations were that the images should be accompanied by short, objective captions; no polemics. The exhibit is now on permanent display in the War Remnants Museum in Ho Chi Minh City; standing there for over an hour this summer I watched as a mix of local schoolchildren and tourists came in to look, often overwhelmed by its earnestness and the power of the images on display. I met Mr. Faas in London, where we were neighbors and occasionally colleagues, and we became friends. At a reunion in Saigon of reporters and photographers from the war in 2005, Mr. Faas suffered a spinal hemorrhage that left him paralyzed from the chest down. He returned to Germany for treatment, and I never saw him again. We continued to talk by phone sometimes, and to write to each other, and I could only admire that familiar bravery and good humor with which he faced this battle until his death in 2012.  In my home I have a little corner dedicated to Mr. Faas, thanks to a photograph that he gave me. It’s the one with a handsome young G.I. looking up toward the camera with the words “War is hell” written on the thin elastic band of his helmet. Unknown to Mr. Faas, the soldier, Larry Wayne Chaffin, survived the war but had a hard time returning to civilian life, and died at 39. Perhaps Mr. Faas could sense that troubled future in the thin smile he captured that day.  He understood that Vietnam would be a complicated legacy for the troops, just as it would be for the press corps and himself. In the introduction to “Requiem,” the journalist David Halberstam, who shared a villa in Saigon with Mr. Faas in the early years of the war, quotes the photographer’s parting words to Saigon. “Years later we won’t sit around and talk about the good old days in Vietnam,” Mr. Faas said, “because there weren’t any good old days.”  James Hill is a contract photographer for The New York Times.