It was more than three years after her retirement when Justice Sandra Day O’Connor publicly acknowledged her regret over seeing pieces of her legacy erased by a rightward-turning Supreme Court. “What would you feel?” she asked her biographer, Joan Biskupic, in a September 2009 interview. “I’d be a little bit disappointed. If you think you’ve been helpful and then it’s dismantled, you think, ‘Oh, dear.’ ” The legacy of Justice Antonin Scalia, two years after his death, is being erased as well. (He isn’t here to see it, of course, and he would no doubt have expressed his reaction differently.) When faced with interpreting an act of Congress, his colleagues evidently now feel free to invoke legislative history — committee reports, floor debates and the like — without tiptoeing over the hot coals of his scorn. Legislative history without apology. It may seem a small thing compared with Justice O’Connor’s worries about the future of affirmative action and the right to abortion. But interpreting statutes is what the Supreme Court does most of the time, and given Congress’s affinity for using language that is deliberately or carelessly obscure or internally contradictory, it matters a great deal how the court approaches its interpretive task. It would be easy to regard the fate of legislative history in the Roberts court as so much inside baseball, of interest only to fanatical Supreme Court groupies. But the fact is that powered by the force of his personality and rhetoric, Justice Scalia’s antipathy toward legislative history influenced the way lawyers framed and argued their cases and the way lower courts approached their statutory work. I don’t mean to overstate the case. Just as a majority of the court never accepted Justice Scalia’s view that the only legitimate basis for interpreting the Constitution is the original intent of its framers, there was never a majority for his position that trying to figure out what Congress actually meant, no matter how obtusely it expressed its intention, is a fundamentally illegitimate quest for a judge. “The text is the law,” he would say — the text of the statute and nothing but the text. Anything else was “a kind of ventriloquism,” he once wrote in dissent because “words appear to come from Congress’s mouth” that might actually have been put there by staff aides, lobbyists or who knows who else. By offering “something for everybody,” he wrote in his 1997 book, “A Matter of Interpretation,” legislative history invites judges to cherry-pick whatever committee reports or snippets from the Congressional Record support their favored policy outcomes. While I’m not claiming that everyone on the court once agreed with Justice Scalia and that now no one does, it’s clear that something is changing. The change jumped out at me from the pages of a decision last month, Digital Realty Trust Inc. v. Somers. The case required the court to interpret language in the Dodd-Frank law that provides a shield against retaliation for whistle-blowers who disclose violations of securities laws. To decide what kinds of disclosures qualify, the court had to explore the relationship between Dodd-Frank, enacted in 2010, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act from eight years earlier; both offer whistle-blower protection that is similar but not identical. The majority opinion’s author, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, is one of the court’s clearest writers, but even her clean prose couldn’t lift a dense opinion from the complex statutory thicket in which the case was mired. In the course of settling on the narrower of two possible interpretations of Dodd-Frank’s whistle-blower protection, Justice Ginsburg cited legislative history six times in the opinion’s 21 pages. All six citations were to the Senate report, No. 111-176, which she found to illuminate Congress’s purpose in drafting the language as it did. Five justices agreed with her: Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Anthony M. Kennedy, Stephen G. Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan. None felt the obligation to defend or even explain the use of legislative history. There was no “tried and true circumlocution,” as Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., in a tribute to Justice Scalia, put it in describing the usual effort by justices and lawyers alike to avoid Justice Scalia’s wrath by including such apologia as “For those who find legislative history helpful, I note ….” This time, the majority used legislative history because it was there to be used: It was useful. The vote in the Digital Realty case was unanimous as to the outcome. But Justices Alito, Clarence Thomas and Neil M. Gorsuch withheld their signatures from Justice Ginsburg’s full opinion. Their objection was to the citation of the Senate report. Justice Thomas, in a concurring opinion the other two joined, wrote that “even assuming a majority of Congress read the Senate Report, agreed with it, and voted for Dodd-Frank with the same intent, ‘we are a government of laws, not of men, and are governed by what Congress enacted rather than by what it intended.’” The quotation was from a 2014 concurring opinion by Justice Scalia, who for years had provided the model for refusing to give full assent to any opinion citing legislative history. In an article in the latest issue of the Harvard Law Review titled “Statutory Interpretation on the Bench,” Richard A. Posner, the former federal judge, and Professor Abbe R. Gluck of Yale Law School describe the contortions required by Justice Scalia’s obstinacy. Before his death, the authors write, “it was common to see opinions that placed all discussion of legislative history in a final, separate part so that Justice Scalia could join the entire opinion except for that part.” In last month’s case, Justice Thomas’s separate opinion in turn provoked Justice Sotomayor, joined by Justice Breyer, to issue an opinion underscoring their agreement with Justice Ginsburg’s use of legislative history. Their concurring opinion reads like a declaration of independence in a post-Scalia world. “I write separately only to note my disagreement with the suggestion in my colleague’s concurrence that a Senate Report is not an appropriate source for this court to consider when interpreting a statute,” Justice Sotomayor wrote. She continued: “Legislative history is of course not the law, but that does not mean it cannot aid us in our understanding of a law.” Her opinion concluded: “I do not think it wise for judges to close their eyes to reliable legislative history — and the realities of how members of Congress create and enact laws — when it is available.” If the days of linguistic contortions are over for those who would use legislative history, contortions may now be the order of the day for those justices who object to its use — only to find that they have to use it anyway. On the same day that it decided the Dodd-Frank case, the court also issued an opinion in a criminal case, Class v. United States. The question was whether a defendant who pleads guilty can then proceed to challenge the constitutionality of the statute that he has just admitted violating. The answer, in a 6 to 3 opinion by Justice Breyer, was yes. Justice Alito wrote a dissenting opinion, arguing that Rule 11 of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure treats a guilty plea as waiving such a claim. The notes of the advisory committee that drafted the current rule in 1983 “make this clear,” Justice Alito wrote. Notes? A committee? Sounds like legislative history, but Justice Alito took pains to explain in a footnote why, in his estimation, it wasn’t. “Advisory Committee’s Notes should not be equated with congressional committee reports and other items of legislative history,” he wrote, explaining that the notes are part of the official package of recommendations that the Supreme Court eventually submits to Congress. I find Justice Alito’s distinction elusive at best. Under the Rules Enabling Act, proposed amendments to the rules governing federal court procedure become effective unless Congress acts by a specific deadline to disapprove them. In other words, the default rule is adoption by congressional passivity. Why should this make the preliminary committee paperwork more rather than less reliable as an indication of congressional intent than for a bill on which members actually vote? It is a question that Justice Alito’s footnote hardly answers. No matter. In his majority opinion, Justice Breyer dug deeper into Rule 11, found that the committee notes actually pointed in the opposite direction, and concluded that the rule “cannot resolve this case.” During the Scalia era, useful clues to legislative meaning were studiously ignored by lawyers and judges alike, even though very few lower-court judges were ever as rigid as Justice Scalia in their approach to statutory interpretation. For their Harvard Law Review article, Judge Posner and Professor Gluck interviewed 42 federal appellate judges and found none who flatly refused to use legislative history — and a number who spoke, anonymously, with surprising disdain toward the Supreme Court’s rule-bound approach to interpreting statutes. With a handful of exceptions, most notably his 2008 majority opinion that established a right under the Second Amendment to keep a handgun at home for self-defense, Justice Scalia’s 30-year Supreme Court tenure left surprisingly little imprint on the law in terms of majority opinions that bear his name. Invited to assess his legacy, his admirers invariably point to the influence of his insistence on originalism in constitutional interpretation and textualism for statutes. Debates over how to read the Constitution preceded Antonin Scalia and will be with us forever. But the debate about legislative history is a fading memory.