We recently traveled to the Guantánamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba as legal observers for a case against a detainee accused of being a leader of Al Qaeda. The military commissions complex known as Camp Justice — an assortment of white trailers and beige tents on an abandoned air strip — was established by the George W. Bush administration in 2001 to “swiftly” try terrorism suspects in the wake of Sept. 11. But over a decade has passed, the tents are still there, and so are 41 detainees. It is the traveling circus that never leaves town. At one point Guantánamo ignited passions across the political spectrum. Today the bipartisan consensus is apathy. And that apathy allows for enduring injustice in the form of indefinite detention, tainted procedure and dysfunctional bureaucracy. Only one journalist, Carol Rosenberg of The Miami Herald, continues to report regularly from Guantánamo. During two weeks of hearings in late January and early February, we found the court’s viewing gallery nearly empty. We watched the proceedings from behind a glass barrier with audio transmitted on a 40-second delay meant to intercept accidental disclosure of classified information. One day we toured the Gitmo gift shop — right next to the McDonald’s — where you can buy all variety of memorabilia emblazoned with “Guantánamo Bay” and images of iguanas and surfboards. A memorable shot glass bore the line “The Beatings Will Continue Until Morale Improves.” The sleepy seaside setting obscures the reality that Guantánamo is in a state of quiet tumult, with alarming developments occurring largely outside the spotlight. President Trump announced in his State of the Union address, which we watched in an airless tent in Camp Justice, that he had signed an executive order to keep Guantánamo open. Then last month his administration indicated that it is receptive to sending more captives  there, including members of the Islamic State. They would be the first new arrivals in a decade, extending the life of an institution that has disappointed on every front. Also last month, Secretary of Defense James Mattis fired the official in charge of overseeing the trials. The Pentagon gave no explanation, but some speculated it was because the official had been exploring a potential plea deal for the Sept. 11 suspects. And last week we learned, thanks to Ms. Rosenberg’s reporting, why the lawyers for the man accused of masterminding the Cole bombing defied a judge’s order to appear in court. Apparently they found a microphone disguised as a smoke detector in the room where they met with their clients. It is clear that the commissions have been a failure. Since the beginning, they have been dogged by accusations of inherent unfairness. Hearsay and evidence obtained through coercion, which would never be allowed in a civilian court, are potentially admissible in these proceedings. More prosaically, the court’s location on an island in the middle of the Caribbean means that all of the lawyers and judges shuttle back and forth from the United States on expensive military-chartered flights, adding logistical complexities and delays. As a result, while roughly 780 detainees have been held at Guantánamo, the commissions have issued only eight convictions, and half of those have been either overturned or partly invalidated. Cases languish for years in pretrial proceedings. The majority of Guantánamo detainees will probably never have their day in court, which means we will never deliver the justice that the families of victims of terrorism deserve. After a decade or more behind bars, more than half of the remaining detainees have yet to be charged with any crime. The United States government simply does not know what to do with them. Now that the Trump administration has raised the possibility that it may add to the ranks of detainees, Americans no longer have the luxury of forgetting about Guantánamo. We need to end this failed judicial experiment. No new cases should be brought to Guantánamo. Instead, they should be brought to federal courts, which already handle complex terrorism-related cases and allow for better civilian oversight and press access. And the Pentagon must open the door to plea deals when appropriate and honor those that have already been struck; they may be the only real hope for closing cases tainted by torture. It’s long past time to end this embarrassing chapter in American history and to pack up the Guantánamo tent city once and for all.