KNOXVILLE, Iowa — As Democrats have fled rural America — or rural America has fled Democrats — many of them, living in cities, are left without an understanding of rural culture and its core values. If it isn’t on abortion, our deepest cultural divide might be on guns. The guns issue also has a profound political dimension, reliably driving rural Americans into Republican arms. It’s been many years since I hunted squirrels and rabbits with my Grandpa Leonard. I grew up around guns and remember the pride I had when I completed my N.R.A.-sponsored gun safety training in Boy Scouts, back when the N.R.A. was a group primarily known for teaching gun appreciation and safety rather than lobbying. I have come to understand and appreciate arguments for more gun control. But guns are important to the culture in my conservative community in Iowa, and people around here reject most gun control legislation. So I do my best to understand where they are coming from. One morning after the mass shootings in Parkland, Fla., I spoke about them with a police-officer friend. He has led active-shooter trainings in our schools. He believes that better background checks might help prevent some gun violence, and that people need to do a better job securing their firearms (especially from suicidal teenagers). But he doesn’t believe that significant gun control measures will ever meet approval in rural America, including a ban on AR-15-style semiautomatic rifles. He confided that many conservative police officers do not want more gun control and that other officers have told him that should they ever have to start taking guns away from people, they will quit their jobs. Like most rural conservatives, he truly believes that taking guns away from law-abiding citizens will never solve America’s gun problems, including mass shootings. He says gun control has never stopped criminals from getting guns, and never will. To understand why many conservatives in rural America believe this, you must start with first principles, because the argument ultimately isn’t about guns; it runs even deeper than the Second Amendment. At a 2015 campaign event during the Iowa caucuses, J. C. Watts, the former congressman from Oklahoma, spoke about perspectives on original sin. It helps illuminate the differences in worldview between many conservatives and liberals. Mr. Watts said Democrats think people were born basically good, so when good people did bad things, something in society (in this case, guns) needed to be controlled. Republicans think the fault lies with the person — the perpetrator of the evil. Bad choices result in bad things being done, in part because the perpetrator lacks the moral guidance the Christian faith provides. The reaction to mass shootings highlights this difference. Liberals blame the guns and want to debate gun control. For conservatives, the blame lies with the shooter, not the gun. To my conservative friends, it’s a matter of liberty and personal responsibility. Even after a horrific event like the school shooting in Florida, where 17 people were killed, more gun control would be compromising those first principles. For them, compromising those principles would be even more horrific and detrimental to society than any shooting. What my conservative friends see is not gun control, but rather control, period. Not everyone here is an N.R.A. nut, but they think the N.R.A. may be the last line of defense for the Second Amendment. The apocalyptic videos about gun control from the N.R.A. spokeswoman Dana Loesch are over the top, as my conservative friends here know, but they think they are fun for the basic reason that liberals grow faint after viewing them. Many people own guns because they simply enjoy them — shooting them, the feel of them, their history, their role in protection. They want guns for the same reason you might want a particular kind of car. They also believe that having a gun makes them less likely to become a victim. Here, guns are tools. We hunt with them. Because we live in a free country, we can have a great many things. But few of those things deserved special mention in our Constitution. Guns did. Throwing around statistics on shooting deaths in America will not make rural gun owners give up their guns. Make no mistake: These statistics and the deaths behind them sadden rural gun owners just as much as they sadden you. But again, where you might blame the guns, they don’t. They blame the shooters. I worry that the ready availability of guns contributes to the number of suicides in rural America. Nothing crushes a small town like a suicide, as nearly everyone knows the victim or a family member. I had a chat with a good friend the other day. He’s another law enforcement officer. He thinks the gun debate isn’t being framed in a productive way. He asked: “What are you, Bob? Pro-gun or anti-gun? Pro-Second Amendment or anti-Second Amendment?” “Pro-Second Amendment,” I said. “All in favor of rifles, shotguns and handguns. Concealed carry makes me nervous, but I guess I’m for it, and I want AR-15s and their kin banned.” “So, are you anti-gun or pro-gun?” “Well, I guess I don’t exactly know,” I replied. “Me neither,” he said. “I’m a lifelong hunter, but when I tell my friends I don’t want people with AR-15s slung over their shoulders at the county fair, some say I’m anti-gun, anti-Second Amendment, and I’m not. We need to frame this conversation differently before we can get anywhere.” I know those great kids from Parkland will accept only bans on AR-15s and more — I understand why — and some conservatives seem to be moving on age limits, background checks and perhaps on bump stocks. The Florida Legislature and Gov. Rick Scott have responded to the tragedy and raised the age on gun purchases. Maybe we are stumbling to a better sort of dialogue, led by these kids from Florida and students all over the country who walked out to protest gun violence. There is room for some compromise. For me, guns always bring to mind Grandpa Leonard. I remember the first time he took me hunting. He took a shot, and a squirrel fell from the branches of the oak. “Looks like we eat stew tonight,” he said. I retrieved the squirrel, still warm, in the cool Iowa summer morning, and laid it in the pile of four or five he had already shot. Grandpa Leonard was not a Republican but a devoted New Deal Democrat. He went to his grave knowing that the policies of President Franklin Roosevelt saved his family, including 11 children, from starvation during the Great Depression. Grandpa was a pro-union coal miner, a farm hand, a road crew worker, a boat builder and a factory worker. Today, many rural men just like him are dedicated Republicans. If Democrats want to engage rural America culturally and politically, they need to understand us, and at least some of our ideals.