ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — You wouldn’t peg me as an IndyCar fan. I’m a bookish, nervous woman staring down midlife, someone who likes to be quiet and who tries hard not to go out in the sun. I hate driving fast, I loathe aggressive drivers, and I have experienced a number of serious anxiety attacks when trying to navigate crowded interstates at high speeds. But here’s the thing: I love racecars. I grew up in a motor-head family. My two brothers and I had a king’s ransom of Hot Wheels and Matchbox cars, and we vroomed them relentlessly around the living room baseboards, across the kitchen table, along the back of the console TV. My dad is a gear head and speed freak; some of my earliest memories are of his taking us to drag-racing time trials and to watch unlimited hydroplanes taking flight in Miami Marine Stadium. I married a motor head, too — a gentle man who speaks softly and makes himself a cup of hot tea every night, but who can recite lines from Steve McQueen’s “Le Mans” and who recently affixed a huge “65” racing decal to his vintage Volvo (“Just for fun,” he says). So when IndyCar recently came to Florida for the Firestone Grand Prix of St. Petersburg, I was there — heart pumping, eyes popping, ears ringing. A sea of IndyCars buzzed violently around the streets of this winsome little Florida city, and the vehicular throng could not be more thrilling or more vibrant. The world was suddenly alive with metallic, high-speed color, and the sweet thrill of my Hot Wheels childhood came rushing back. The sound of 24 IndyCars in flat-out combat was a hivelike buzzing — a high-intensity hum that faded when the cars rounded a curve out of sight but that re-upped when they appeared in the straightaway. The Firestone Grand Prix is the annual opening race of the Verizon IndyCar Series. For me, the pulse point of the race is in the absurd dichotomy of its setting. Nearly two dozen venerable IndyCars — the hands-down Goliaths of American testosterone — hurtle through the streets of one of Florida’s artsiest and most comely neighborhoods. IndyCar in St. Pete, a tradition since 2005, is a gift. It puts St. Petersburg in the league of some of the most storied locations in motor sports. Think Monaco or Le Mans. It lets the nation see Florida — beautiful and complex and mysterious and thrilling — in a different light, at least for a few days. Florida gets such a bad rap. We’re the boom-and-bust court jesters of the continental United States, and sometimes I’m convinced we’re seen by our compatriots as a cutely dumb, slightly embarrassing appendage populated entirely by retirees, rednecks, theme parks and opioids. We’ve got people living under bridges and shootings on end and mortifyingly low education funding. Flori-duh they’re calling us. We’ve got so much perceived crazy we earned our own meme: Florida Man. Still, downtown St. Pete is pretty, darn it — seriously pretty, with crisply manicured landscaping, waterfront bistros, blocks of Art Deco Floridiana and an army of chortling sea gulls that seem to ascend on cue to fandango against a subtropic sunrise. And into this artsy, balmy Shangri-La comes, for one weekend, a loud, lionhearted parade of real-live action heroes in bona fide Batmobiles. Just look at the names on the drivers’ roster: Will Power. Takuma Sato. Josef Newgarden. They’re like Marvel’s Avengers, a troupe of dauntless young intellects in flame-retardant suits, driving vehicles that have sprung fully formed from the imaginations of every kid who ever fashioned a superhero cape out of a bedsheet — which, of course, was all of us. All I could think, as I watched the pre-race ceremonies — the drivers shimmy into their cockpits, the engines pop and buzz to life, the pace car leads the contenders to the course — was that this was, well, the most impressive thing ever. And it’s in Florida. Take that, hanging chads. This is the haut monde of motor sports — the fastest cars, the most challenging circuits, the most expensive technologies. It’s also earsplitting, adrenaline-chugging fun — the chance to stand mere feet from a scathing swarm of mammoth automotive hornets hurtling at more than 200 miles per hour through a winding street course. When the race began, I was atop a parking garage adjacent to the urbane Dali Museum. From there, the view of Turns 1 and 2 were pristine, and the vantage seemed safer. Turn 9 funneled the raging cars into a straightaway overlooking a tranquil cotillion of anchored yachts. Watching practice runs earlier in the day, I became keenly aware that a single errant rivet from one of these high-tech missiles would be enough to hurt a person unlucky enough to be standing nearby. This race can kill spectators, and it has. I decided to take my chances on top of the parking garage. One hundred and 10 laps later, Sébastian Bourdais (a St. Petersburg resident!) took the checkered flag. I was pink with sunburn and exhausted from the stimulation. IndyCar needs Florida, too. There’s only one Sunshine State and only one Sunshine City, and that would be St. Petersburg, which holds the Guinness World Record for most consecutive sunny days (768). It’s an American Monte Carlo. A lot of things about Florida may be a mess, but spring weather isn’t one of them. We live in paradise. A view of a March St. Petersburg sun glittering on a speeding IndyCar’s brightly painted chassis is a sight to behold. By kicking off its season in St. Pete, IndyCar hitches its wagon to a hundred-year history of Florida car racing, one that brings to mind Sebring, Nascar and Malcolm Campbell setting speed records on the beaches of Daytona in the late 1920s. This year, Firestone announced the Grand Prix will continue until at least 2020, and hopefully beyond. That’s good news for Florida. And good news for IndyCar. And good news for me, too. Ah, St. Pete. Ah, Florida. Well played. You need this sort of event.