This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Several congressional Republicans had the right response to President Trump’s lie-laden tantrum about Robert Mueller yesterday. Firing Mueller, Senator Lindsey Graham said, “would be the beginning of the end of his presidency.” Senator Jeff Flake called it “a massive red line.” Paul Ryan, the speaker of the House, was weaker, letting his spokeswoman say, “Mr. Mueller and his team should be able to do their job” — but that’s still less deferential to Trump than Ryan normally is. And yet The Atlantic’s David Frum notes that this weekend still featured a worrisome example of Congress folding in the face of a Trump assault on the rule of law: the firing of Andrew McCabe, the F.B.I. deputy director. “All this matters even more urgently when you consider the McCabe firing as a road-test for Trump’s method in an impending showdown with Robert Mueller,” Frum writes. Quinta Jurecic and Benjamin Wittes of Lawfare also help explain the McCabe firing. * By now, you’ve probably heard the claim that Americans have grown skeptical of education: Student debt is out of control, a college degree doesn’t guarantee a good job, and on and on. Don’t believe these claims. Yes, many people criticize our education system — and many of those criticisms are legitimate. But the vast majority of Americans understand how important education is, and they very much want their children to get a good education, including college. My column this morning lays out the evidence of real attitudes about education, including a story from the recent Alabama Senate race and a new study by the think tank Demos. Thanks to Morning Consult, a research firm, I was also able to conduct a poll for the column. It asked people what level of education they wanted their kids to receive — high school, community college or four-year college. The results show that all the talk of skepticism is badly exaggerated. And the enormous popularity of education creates an opportunity for anyone running for office this year. Voters are ready to hear ideas about better access to a strong, affordable education. I hope you’ll read the column. * The Times and The Observer of London both had scoops this weekend about the misuse of Facebook data by Cambridge Analytica, a firm employed by the Trump campaign. Wired’s Issie Lapowsky argues that the episode is the latest sign that Facebook needs to change: “Facebook offers unprecedented data to its paying clients, but has next to no controls in place to ensure that data will be handled properly.”