When moral philosophers and others take up an issue that is at the center of public debate, we tend to frame it as a matter of individual ethics. Is it morally permissible to eat meat? To offer money for sex? To have an abortion? Yet, such questions often fail to focus on the issues that are important and relevant for public policy and, as a result, can derail productive public debate. The problem is that questions like these oversimplify the issues. Consider, for instance, that “abortion” is really an umbrella term for a number of different medical procedures — appropriate for different stages of pregnancy — each with significantly different health risks. Abortion is first and foremost a medical service or procedure, not an individual action, and thus a more important and relevant question for public policy is, Under what circumstances, or for what reasons, should a government prohibit properly trained medical professionals from performing an abortion? This is a question that fellow citizens can productively debate, and that may lead to a consensus. The relevant public policy question raises issues of medical privacy, limits on governmental power, and the protection of public health, all of which as citizens we need to debate as a matter of social ethics and political values. The individual or personal ethics question — on the moral acceptability of abortion — is not likely to generate a public consensus, given the current lack of agreement on many background issues. It is well known that members of our society hold vastly different views about when personhood or a human life begins, about our moral obligations to our genetic offspring, or what kind of sexual acts are permissible. That is to be expected. A pluralist, democratic society can accommodate a good amount of such disagreement. Yet it is necessary that we do reach a strong consensus about how to regulate a public service, and so moral, political and philosophical analyses should aim to illuminate the issues that can help generate such a consensus. This should be the case not only for abortion. For example, to productively discuss the opioid abuse crisis, we should ask how our government should regulate doctors who prescribe opioids or pharmacies that distribute them, not when is it morally permissible for an individual to take an opioid (or any addictive) drug. The marriage equality movement raised the question of whether our government should recognize marriages between two people of the same sex, not whether those marriages are ethical. Public debate on this question over the past few decades has been productive and illuminating. So what about abortion? How should governments restrict or regulate the abortion services offered by medical professionals or facilities? Because this is an issue about good medicine, we need to focus on health risks and outcomes instead of personal ethics. There is broad agreement that medical professionals and facilities should be able to offer services or remedies that are lifesaving and health-preserving for their patients, and they should be prohibited from doing so when the health risks of those services outweigh their health benefits. Given what we now know about the safety of abortion procedures at different stages of pregnancy, and the risks posed by pregnancy and childbirth, what justifications can be offered for restricting abortion services? It is true that abortion procedures commonly used a century ago were highly dangerous for patients. With advances in medicine, though, the procedures in use today pose fewer risks to a woman’s life or health than pregnancy or childbirth itself. A 2012 study of abortion in the United States published in the journal Obstetrics & Gynecology, concluded: “Legal induced abortion is markedly safer than childbirth. The risk of death associated with childbirth is approximately 14 times higher than that with abortion.” There is a lot packed into that statistic, but we often forget that pregnancy and childbirth pose health risks, which vary for women depending on their age, health status, projected need for a cesarean section, number of previous pregnancies and the spacing between them, and so on. Given these risks, access to legal abortion is, in general, life- and health-preserving for women. Our public debates need to consider the state’s interest in protecting women’s health and the limits of state power in interfering with the decisions we make about how best to preserve our own health or protect our own lives. A recent report by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine concludes that “The clinical evidence clearly shows that legal abortions in the United States — whether by medication, aspiration, D & E, or induction — are safe and effective. Serious complications are rare. But the risks of serious complication increases with weeks’ gestation.” This means that state laws and policies that unnecessarily delay the scheduling of an abortion procedure hinder, rather than help, the government in pursuing its interest in protecting women’s health. The state also has an interest in protecting fetal human life, even if fetuses are not legal persons, but this state interest needs to be balanced against others. Nevertheless, our courts have determined repeatedly that, until the last third or so of a pregnancy, the state’s interest in protecting women’s health and decisional privacy outweighs its interest in protecting fetal life. Yet, why do these interests need to be rebalanced in the last part of pregnancy? First, performing an abortion in the last months of pregnancy is medically more complicated and poses a higher degree of risk than one performed earlier. Moreover, a pregnant woman in the late stages of a healthy pregnancy has already endured most of the bodily burdens of a pregnancy, and thus the health benefits of an abortion at that stage may not outweigh the risks. Second, given the viability of the fetus in the late stages of pregnancy, an abortion — a medical procedure in which the fetus’s death is an unavoidable outcome — imposes on the medical staff the act of performing a procedure in which a viable fetus will die. It is only reasonable to order a medical team to do this when such a procedure is medically necessary. Alternatively, attempting to induce a premature live birth that is not medically necessary, should a woman request this, would likely injure a viable fetus and endanger its postnatal health and life. Because an abortion is a medical service, and not something a woman decides or does by herself, her right to decisional privacy in this matter is not absolute. Given these considerations, governments have a compelling interest in restricting abortions in late stages of a healthy pregnancy, but they have an equally compelling interest in ensuring that legal and safe abortions are available to women, without burdensome restrictions, before the last third or so of a pregnancy. If, in the future, a public consensus on the question of when human personhood begins (in particular, one that agrees that a human person could exist before any complex psychological properties have developed), then we would need to recognize that there is more than one “patient” involved in an abortion. We are not there yet. To get there, the minority who believe this would have to convince the rest of us of this metaphysical, or religiously based, assertion. Until they do, we need to focus on the more manageable and relevant question of how to regulate a medical service or procedure that is sought by millions of women. When there is a lack of public consensus on a moral question, our public policies need to reflect the principles on which there is broad agreement. In a liberal democracy, we don’t need to resolve many difficult questions of individual morality in order to have defensible public policies — policies that are justified by our commitment to democratic decision making, liberty and equality. State officials who appeal to their own beliefs on questions of individual morality, in order to justify their policy decisions, are violating values more fundamental to our society. Questions like “Is homosexuality immoral?” or “Is abortion immoral?” suggest that entire groups of people that pursue activities necessary to securing their basic human needs are possibly morally compromised, and are thus insulting; they also encourage civic leaders and their constituents to take up rigid and extreme views based on their own personal convictions, and to be morally arrogant toward others who don’t share their views. Raising these questions in the midst of heated public debate about access to abortion services or to civil marriage makes it seem as if we are hopelessly divided as a society in ways that render the policy questions irresolvable. Yet questions about individual moral behavior or personal ethics, which still generate wide disagreement based on religious diversity, are not really all that relevant to the issue of lawmaking. In short, what a good society does is based on a different set of considerations and principles than what a good person does.