On Sept. 20, Hurricane Maria hit Puerto Rico, turning my life upside down. At the time, my two daughters and I were living in Carolina, a town on the northeastern side of the island. In just a day, my clothes were turned to rags, my home was destroyed, and I lost the few belongings I had. My mother lived in the same town but her house was still standing. For two months, we slept on a couch in her living room. But we couldn’t stay there forever. In December, the Federal Emergency Management Agency moved us to New York City. Since then, we’ve been staying in hotels provided by FEMA in the Bronx and Brooklyn, like hundreds of other families who were moved to New York after the storm. But this experience can hardly be called “living.” We’re barely surviving. Congress and the Trump administration have failed to truly address the crisis, leaving survivors stranded months after the storm. In Puerto Rico, we were told by FEMA that we were going to be welcomed in New York with open arms. But that hasn’t been our experience. When we arrived in New York, we were placed in a hotel in the Bronx. There, we had no kitchen and thus couldn’t cook. We didn’t have enough money to eat out, so I fed my children microwaved meals for nearly three months. FEMA approved a voucher we could use to find housing elsewhere. But $553 per month is not enough to pay for a room in New York City. In the hotel, we felt discriminated against. The staff told us we were not allowed to talk to other guests or spend time in the hallways or the lobby. We were confined to our rooms all day. My limited English has made it difficult to find a job. I applied for welfare assistance so that I could feed my children, but the request was denied twice. This month we were finally able to move to a hotel in Brooklyn with a kitchen. Puerto Rican volunteers have been helping us connect with city services, going with us to appointments and translating for us. Six months after the storm hit, there are still thousands of Puerto Ricans, in New York and on the island, struggling to get water, food, medicine or shelter. Congress and the Trump administration have yet to approve an adequate aid package that truly helps Puerto Rico recover from the hurricane. We are traumatized and exhausted, but determined to fight for our right to live with dignity. That’s why I joined the hundreds of families like mine who marched on Washington on Tuesday, the six-month anniversary of Hurricane Maria. I raised my voice to demand that FEMA and Congress fulfill their responsibility to protect and support all Americans. Puerto Rico deserves more than President Trump’s paper towels. We need real investment that will make it possible for our families to return home and to live in a place that not only has the basic necessities like water and electricity but also economic opportunity. Puerto Ricans should have the right to determine the political future of the island we love so much. If we don’t go out into the streets and make our voices heard, no one will know that the crisis is far from over. The disaster after the disaster continues. My children and I live it every day.