Days after a horrifying act of violence, a Democrat from Connecticut stood on the Senate floor and declared, “I hope that this brutal, senseless killing will shock the Congress into backing me in this fight to take the guns from the hands of assassins and murderers.” The senator was not Chris Murphy of Connecticut, who has become Capitol Hill’s leading voice for gun safety legislation. And the act of violence was not the kind of mass shooting that haunts our nation in the 21st century. It was 50 years ago, after the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., that one of Senator Murphy’s predecessors, Thomas Dodd, issued this stirring plea. King was murdered in Memphis on April 4, 1968. That killing, together with the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy two months later, spurred the passage of the Gun Control Act that year. It was the first time since the 1930s that the federal government had passed a major gun control bill. We are now witnessing the emergence of the most passionate movement for gun control since 1968. The country’s ordeal half a century ago illustrates that horrific episodes of gun violence do not themselves prompt legislative action; only the sustained pressure of an energized populace can do that. The students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., surely grasp this truth. Those who organized for gun control in 1968 ultimately obtained a piece of legislation that President Lyndon Johnson admitted was “not nearly enough.” The question remains whether the eloquent and indefatigable Stoneman Douglas students, and their millions of allies across the country who will take to the streets in protest this weekend, can push legislators further. After the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in 1963, advocates of gun control tried to bring legislation to the Senate floor. Dodd often led the charge. At first, he worked with the arms manufacturers in Connecticut and the National Rifle Association. But the N.R.A. grew more extreme over the course of the decade and began to oppose almost all regulatory legislation. Dodd’s bills never made it out of Senate committees. By 1967, opinion polls found widespread support for gun control, even among gun owners. One of the prime reasons was racism: Whites feared black people with guns, whether they were Black Panthers or urban rioters. In the spring of 1967, the California Legislature passed the Mulford Act, which outlawed the open display of guns and was aimed at restraining the Black Panther Party. But such legislative action had become increasingly rare. On April 4, 1968, one hour before James Earl Ray aimed his rifle at the balcony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, the Senate Judiciary Committee deadlocked on a proposal to regulate gun sales (it banned mail-order and interstate gun sales, though it exempted rifles and shotguns). Four senators had been absent from the meeting. At another meeting of the committee two days later, they tipped the balance in favor of this amendment, which had been offered by Dodd. The measure was added to the Safe Streets Act, which was itself part of an omnibus crime bill. The N.R.A. mobilized against the Dodd amendment; on April 9, the association sent a letter to its 900,000 members, warning that the legislation could eventually end “the private ownership of all guns.” Nevertheless, the Senate approved the omnibus crime bill in May, with the gun control amendment attached. Two months to the day after King was assassinated, Senator Kennedy was assassinated in Los Angeles. His murder further galvanized the American public behind gun control. “The only practical solution is a total ban on firearms for all but law enforcement officers,” wrote one man, Alexander Markovich of Ardsley, N.Y., in a letter to The Times. A group of citizens soon formed the first major organization dedicated to gun control: the National Council for a Responsible Firearms Policy. The Senate majority leader, Mike Mansfield of Montana, had doubts that Kennedy’s assassination would prompt any further gun regulations. Then came the deluge of mail. In the week after Kennedy’s death, Senator Harrison Williams, Democrat of New Jersey, received 6,000 letters advocating stronger gun laws — the most mail that he received on any matter in such a short period of time during his first nine years in the Senate. The mail for Senator Alan Bible, Democrat of Nevada, had previously opposed gun control by about nine to one; after Kennedy’s death, his mail ran three to one in favor of gun regulations. By June 12, Mansfield had changed his mind and said that a measure imposing tighter gun restrictions could most likely pass the Senate. Retailers also felt the pressure of the public. In May, Sears had already ended mail-order sales of firearms. After Kennedy’s death, several other leading merchants followed suit. Some announced they would no longer carry guns or ammunition at all. On June 24, President Johnson delivered an address on guns. He noted that the United States stood “alone among the modern nations of the world” in its lax gun laws. Johnson called for the federal registration of all firearms as well as licensing of every gun owner. Senator Warren Magnuson of Washington, a Democrat, had blocked one of Dodd’s gun control bills in 1964. Now in June 1968, Magnuson told the Senate he was prepared to accept these provisions on gun registration and licensing. But even the conversion of influential senators like Magnuson, and the groundswell of public support, couldn’t protect the bill from the N.R.A. The group’s supporters in the Senate, including Strom Thurmond of South Carolina (who had recently switched to the Republican Party), didn’t have the strength to kill the bill, but they defeated proposals pertaining to gun registration and licensing. The final legislation, the Gun Control Act, banned interstate and mail-order sales of all firearms and ammunition; it also prohibited gun sales to felons, drug addicts and minors. In addition, it required dealers to keep records on those to whom they sold ammunition. Johnson signed the bill on Oct. 22, 1968. But it was an uneven victory for gun control advocates. A federal committee on violence, appointed by Johnson after Robert Kennedy’s death, noted that the Gun Control Act failed on the two most important scores: It neither curbed secondhand gun sales nor decreased the nation’s overall arsenal of firearms. Opinion polls continued to show that broad swaths of the public favored stricter gun regulations. But few were moved to keep the pressure on Congress for a national firearms registry or a licensure law. The urban riots of the 1960s also sparked an increase in gun sales and ultimately helped organizations like the N.R.A., which in the 1970s set out to erode the gun control advances of the previous decade. Its head, Woodson Scott, called for a repeal of the Gun Control Act, and in 1986 President Ronald Reagan signed the Firearm Owners’ Protection Act, which weakened many parts of the Gun Control Act. The story of 1960s gun control legislation, then, is a cautionary tale. It shows that broad-based, sustained public support, combined with the heightened awareness that comes after high-profile tragedies like the King assassination and the Parkland massacre, can indeed force legislators to act. But it also shows how bursts of action are not enough, especially in the face of entrenched opposition. For the gun control advocates who will march on Saturday, the story offers hope. But it is also a reminder that marching is only the beginning.