Austin, Tex. — Were the Austin bombings racially motivated? The suspect is dead, and we may never know for sure. Whatever the investigation yields, the bombings will forever feel like terror to the city’s longstanding African-American and Latino residents. They are reminded once again that the narrative of Austin’s exceptionalism — the notion of the city as a politically progressive and countercultural oasis in the deep, conservative south — never really applied to them. Anthony Stephan House, a 39-year-old African-American, was the first to be killed by a package bomb on March 2. Ten days later, Draylen Mason, a 17-year-old African-American, was killed by a similar device left at his doorstep. Draylen’s mother, Shamika Wilson, was injured in that explosion. Later that afternoon, Esperanza Herrera found a third package bomb and was severely wounded. All three bombings took place east of Interstate-35, Austin’s main artery. East Austin is home to the majority of the city’s African-American and Mexican-American residents, and it is synonymous with minorities and the city’s history of segregation. Indeed, central East Austin, the Masons’ home, was once the heart of the city’s “Negro district,” an area planned by the City Council in 1928 with the express purpose of segregating Austin’s black population during the Jim Crow era. Most of the city’s Mexican-Americans were relegated to an area just to the south. By the end of the 20th century, gentrification pushed many of those Mexican-American families from this area to points further east, including the Montopolis neighborhood, where Ms. Herrera lives. In the days after those first three bombings, residents voiced their fears that the bombings were racially motivated. Authorities cautiously acknowledged the possibility that they might be dealing with serial hate crimes, and police officials apologized for earlier statements they made which implied that Mr. House might have been partially responsible for his own death. On March 18, a fourth bomb exploded on a street in a predominantly white residential area southwest of the city, seriously injuring two unidentified white men in their 20s. Two days later, two more bombs, one of which detonated, were found at FedEx facilities. Those last three bombs (if these are indeed the last ones) changed everything. The authorities stopped invoking possible hate crimes and seemed to drop racial motivation from their statements altogether. But that has done nothing to alleviate the fear among residents of East Austin that they were being targeted. The House and Mason families are stalwarts of the African-American community with deep ties to the city’s civil rights movement. Families like theirs are becoming a rarity in this rapidly gentrifying part of the city. Over the past four years, I have been studying black displacement from Austin, trying to understand why it was the only major growing city in America to see an absolute numerical decline in the African-American population during the first decade of the 21st century. We recently completed a survey in the Masons’ neighborhood, asking longstanding residents what they thought of the changes taking place around them. Respondents described a neighborhood that had lost its children. For them, this was distinguishing feature of gentrification: the families with children moved out and were being replaced by newcomers without children. Draylen and his family were the exception to this rule. For Draylen’s neighbors and others in the area, there was nothing coincidental about three bombs being planted and detonated on that side of the interstate. The people I spoke with were dismayed at how hesitant city leaders were to recognize the terror that gripped their community. Gilbert Rivera, a lifelong East Austin resident, told me he was hurt that elected officials “didn’t acknowledge that black and brown people were under attack after the first three.” This subtle erasure of their sense of safety recalls a much earlier wave of crimes that gripped Austin near the end of the 19th century, in 1884 and 1885. They were known as the “servant girl killings,” in which a serial killer murdered eight people, six of them black. At the time, the authorities insisted that these crimes could not have been racially motivated, and they refused to consider the possibility that a white man could have been responsible. Their investigation centered on black male suspects, but the crime was never solved. And Austin maintained its reputation as a city that was, compared to others in the south, racially tolerant. In many ways, Austin continues to see itself that way. Racial violence is supposed to happen elsewhere, not in this liberal oasis that consistently votes blue and has taken progressive stances on immigration, women’s rights and the environment. In another 100 years, when local history buffs recall the “serial bombings of 2018,” I wonder whether they will acknowledge the racial terror that struck East Austin. Fear, I know, crept into the hearts of all Austinites. But the events of this month have left this city’s African-Americans and Latinos wounded in ways that few others will ever truly know. These are wounds that never seem to heal.