With so much attention on tech giants, it is almost possible to overlook the doings of AT&T, the once fearsome telephone monopolist. Even in an age of bigness, it is a behemoth. Its revenue, $160 billion in 2017, is four times that of Facebook. And AT&T boasts 166 million paying wireless and video subscribers in the United States. And yet the company wants to build an even bigger empire. AT&T is seeking to acquire another giant, Time Warner, the owner of HBO, CNN, Turner Networks, the Warner Bros. studios and DC Comics, among other media properties. Their planned merger would create a union of pipes (AT&T) and content (Time Warner) that would be the largest such company in the world. After years of approving far too many mergers — consider the airline industry — the Justice Department has challenged AT&T’s plan under antitrust laws and delivered its opening arguments against the merger in Federal District Court in Washington on Thursday. According to the department, the merger is broadly anticompetitive and would raise the costs of television for consumers across the nation by an estimated $436 million per year, or 45 cents a month per subscriber. AT&T calls that number “insubstantial” and “negligible” relative to what Americans pay for television. In a way, AT&T has a point. The figure does vastly understate the full costs of this merger to the American public. What we really have here is a brazen effort to prolong the life of a dying business model — “full-service” pay TV — by making “cord-cutting” more expensive, and thereby strangling a revolution in internet television that remains in its toddlerhood. Even worse, greenlighting the deal could set off a domino effect. If AT&T acquires Time Warner, other companies will face intense pressure to follow suit. The AT&T-Time Warner merger would be the second largest in media history, behind only AOL’s acquisition of Time Warner in 2000. A vertically integrated AT&T-Time Warner would have an important bargaining advantage over its non-integrated rivals. That’s particularly dangerous for rivals like Dish, which offers a virtual pay-TV service called Sling TV for as little as $20 a month. Post-merger, when an AT&T-Time Warner negotiates with Dish for access to HBO and CNN, for example, it would hold all the cards. It could set new and higher prices, knowing that if Dish pays more, it hurts itself. But if it refuses and leaves a big hole in its lineup, it hurts itself more, by driving some of its customers to AT&T. That harsh logic will not only force Dish and similar companies to raise their prices to reflect higher costs (as Justice argues), but also drive them to seek their own dancing partners (bodyguards might be another term), to gain reciprocal bargaining power. Perhaps Dish sells itself to Disney or Viacom. Verizon might buy parts of Fox or Viacom. Cable providers like Charter and Altice could pick up whatever is left. Whatever the precise combinations might be, the media lineup would rearrange itself into a new group of “majors.” Consumers would face, in effect, a giant replica of the 1930s Hollywood studio system, an integrated oligopoly in which each player cooperates to keep those big bills big. The obvious strategy for the new majors would be to take aim at the remaining smaller players, especially the new internet television services like Sling TV, Sony’s PlayStation Vue or YouTube TV. In time, internet TV will come to resemble cable TV in pricing and content, with the true outsiders, like Sony or YouTube, forced to play along or face industry-wide exclusion. Making things worse, the effects may bleed into the wireless market. Once AT&T becomes a content company, it can take advantage of the repeal of net neutrality to promote its own content (like television shows from HBO) to AT&T Wireless subscribers. It would bet that many consumers wouldn’t switch to a competing T-Mobile plan, even if it’s cheaper, if it doesn’t let them stream the last season of “Game of Thrones.” Any way you count it, the result is a grand and easily predictable reduction in effective competition. This is what most clearly justifies Justice’s opposition to the merger. In fact, Congress predicted situations like this would occur, and intended the antitrust law to take aim at such consolidation chain reactions “in their incipiency.” Should we really worry about this merger when Netflix and Amazon remain hot, and consumers are dumping their cable and satellite subscriptions anyway? That is actually what’s at stake with this merger: whether that continues, or whether AT&T and friends get in the way. Even if AT&T and its peers manage to only postpone their inexorable decline, a few years of stalling can be worth billions of dollars. That’s why AT&T, in its own arguments in favor of the merger, offers so little benefit for the public. Its first promise to consumers is that they will “make the advertising in Time Warner’s programming more customized,” based on the data AT&T holds. The main outcome of this merger would be to make sure Americans keep paying far too much for pay TV. We can only hope that the court sees this deal for what it is.