It was a blistering day in June 2015, and the sun beat down relentlessly. The only shelter was a small makeshift shed, hidden behind an overgrown embankment next to an almost inaccessible stretch of railroad tracks in a remote area of central Ohio. It was the kind of place that you’d never find without a detailed map, one I typically wouldn’t, as a woman, visit alone. But there were more than 20 women and men there when I arrived, all of them heavily armed.  It was Day 2 of a free, three-day gun training class in Rittman for K-12 public school employees offered by the Buckeye Firearms Association, an Ohio-based gun rights organization. Most attendees were from Ohio schools. Some worked for school districts that were already arming teachers; others hoped to persuade their schools to do so. Many were attending in secret and did not want their employers to know they were there. I was there as a co-producer of the forthcoming documentary film “G Is for Gun: The Arming of Teachers in America.” Over the past three years, I’ve met dozens of teachers, administrators, secretaries, custodians, bus drivers and school nurses in Ohio willing to carry a gun at work and respond with force against an active shooter. Until several weeks ago, when 17 people were gunned down at a Parkland, Fla., high school, the trend of schools arming teachers had received little national attention. Now President Trump is leading the charge to arm teachers. But many people remain unaware that schools in about a dozen states, according to my reporting, have already taken advantage of state laws that allow school employees to carry guns. For most of the people interviewed for this project, the December 2012 massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School was a tipping point on the issue — either a compelling argument for gun control or a clarion call to take up arms for protection. Much of the authority over whether to allow guns in schools rests at the state and local levels. In Ohio, school boards are allowed to arm school personnel but are not required to notify the public that they have done so. In some states, teachers and other employees can carry a gun without anyone’s knowledge, including that of school authorities, so long as they hold a valid concealed-carry permit. No one knows how many schools in the United States have armed teachers or staff members. In Sidney, Ohio, a small city west of Columbus, the school board voted to arm teachers in 2013, just after the Sandy Hook massacre in December 2012. Much of the city and surrounding area is struggling. Schools, health care centers and other social services in the area strain to meet the community’s needs. Even so, the Sidney school board agreed to create and maintain an armed-response program at an annual cost of nearly $200,000 that includes armed security officers and trained teachers and staff members who have access to guns stored in safes in the schools. The municipal police department opposed the plan, fearing that more guns would only create chaos in an emergency. The local teachers union also objected, taking its complaint to the state labor-relations board, which concluded that arming teachers did not qualify as a change in working conditions. Though guns in Sidney’s schools must be kept in safes, many school employees I spoke to there said they were fearful about their colleagues’ quick access to guns. A few expressed concern about the stability of some on the response team.  At least 26 school employees have volunteered to be on the armed-response teams. Superintendent John Scheu says his phone has been ringing constantly with inquiries from other Ohio school districts interested in carrying out their own plans. Buckeye Firearms can hardly keep up with the demand for its courses. As many as 50 to 100 school districts in the state are thought to now have armed teachers. While much of the nation is loudly debating the prospect of arming teachers in the wake of the Parkland massacre, the decision has already been made in much of Ohio. Kate Way, a photographer, filmmaker and educator based in Massachusetts, is a co-director and a co-producer, with Julie Akeret, of the documentary film “G Is for Gun.” 