Here is a selection of some notable recent pieces, including several on the debate over gun laws in the wake of a mass shooting at a high school in Parkland, Fla. Our children have finally begun to turn the tide against guns in this country. They will grow up, and remember everything, and forgive nothing, writes Tim Kreider.  After the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, the Editorial Board wrote: “Candidates must realize that reducing gun violence is a winning and moral issue. Aggressive turnout by voters who believe this can defeat the N.R.A. at the polls.” I am a junior in high school, and I regularly shoot guns, for target practice and hunting. Going to school can be hard because most kids don’t understand how I live. While much of the nation is loudly debating the prospect of arming teachers in the wake of the Parkland massacre, the decision has already been made in much of Ohio. We have a serious problem, and it goes far beyond “fake news.” Too many Americans have no idea how to properly read a social media feed. Here are some guidelines for being a smarter person online. Today the word “hyperactive” doesn’t just describe certain individuals; it also is a quality of our society. And recent research suggests that some people with A.D.H.D. may be naturally suited to our turbocharged world.  Ralph Richard Banks, a law professor at Stanford, noted in an Op-Ed that a recent study “provides an empirical basis for an economic susceptibility that black parents like me have sensed: Across generations, we are less likely than whites to rise and when we do, are more likely later to fall.” He writes about finding the will to disrupt the cycle of black disadvantage. Here’s an idea: Social media tools and tech gadgets should not hurt us. The Mark Zuckerbergs of the world need to start considering the ethical implications of the products they unleash. The latest installment of the Stone series looks at how to think about our data-driven world. The Russians seem to have a hold on the American president. If Trump isn’t Putin’s lackey, it’s past time for him to prove it, writes the Editorial Board. The invasion of Iraq began 15 years ago. Once brutalized by dictatorship under Saddam Hussein, the country became even more dysfunctional, difficult and dangerous for its people afterward. Read this searing account by Sinan Antoon, a poet and novelist born and raised there. "I was an outsider in a place that is supposed to value weirdness." Writer Joshunda Sanders recalls what it was like to be black in Austin, a city that holds racial truths at arm’s length. Remember Rob Ford, the deceased former mayor of Toronto? It didn’t matter to his base that he smoked crack cocaine while in office. Now his older brother Doug has a strong chance of becoming the premier of Ontario, and his rise is crushing the smugness Canadians have been feeling about Justin Trudeau. 