POMPANO BEACH, Fla. — I live in Florida, where I have been in treatment for drug addiction for the last year, through periods of recovery and occasions of relapse. People have long traveled to Florida to get lost — to convalesce by the beach and get well, or to die. And I have known quite a few people who have died here since I deplaned in Tampa for rehab at the lovely River Oaks in February 2017. Since then I have logged many months in detox wards and treatment centers: mornings spent over coffee and cigarettes with Suboxone dissolving under my tongue, waiting for group therapy to start, and nights over yet more coffee in the back rooms of churches, listening to someone share at a 12-step meeting. I finished with treatment about six months ago, and now I live in a sober house for recovering alcoholics and drug addicts in South Florida, an area that has some of the nation’s most popular locales for addiction treatment. Diners stand next door to detox centers here — wellness pressed up against squalor. I am 25, and these days everyone around me is mostly young, in their 20s and early 30s. And yet they are dying — from bad batches of what is supposed to be heroin but is probably fentanyl or its more potent analogues: sufentanil, which is five to 10 times as potent as fentanyl; and carfentanil, which is 100 times as potent. In 2016, more than 64,000 drug users died by accidental overdose, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than the number of Americans killed in Vietnam in 19 years of war. In fact, so many are dying that President Trump announced new measures on Monday to combat the epidemic. But his ideas — with the exception of calling for the death penalty for opioid dealers — were almost too vague to note. The president claimed he was devoting the “most money ever spent on the opioid crisis.” But his performance about getting “tough” on dealers will probably only distract from effective government programs that might relieve some of the damage wrought by the epidemic. It’s too late to help the dead, and I doubt he will do much to help the living, either — those of us who cycle through relapse and recovery, the friends, acquaintances and housemates who vanish without word, sometimes for weeks at a time into the motels that are like holding cells for the down and out and dissipating. My drugs of choice were heroin and cocaine, both of which I took intravenously almost daily for many years, beginning in high school. I had been diagnosed early in life with major depressive disorder and A.D.H.D., had taken Prozac since age 13, and Ritalin and its chemical variants, off and on since age 7. When I first encountered heroin and cocaine, they fazed me no more than any of the other psychotropics that I took to stabilize my moods. By the time I got to the New School in Manhattan, I was undeniably a junkie; I studied literature, but I often skipped class to hang out with the crust punks of Union Square. They were such losers, all of them, and so was I, and there was kinship in that. My friend Jessica lived on one of the park benches there, and we would squander days downtown, slouching across the East Village into Chelsea, where we would cop dope and shoot it in the bathroom at the Strand, where you don’t need a code to get inside. After Jessica got her pit bull — whom she found one morning in the Bronx, chained to a fence and covered in scabs, like he was meant to break your heart — we went to the bathrooms in the basement at Petco instead, where an eight-millimeter syringe tip once broke off into my arm. We were such apparent scum in those days, self-destructing in the wide-open, too sloppy and sinking to seem threatening, that it sometimes felt as if we were living below the law. Jessica had hepatitis C. According to the most recent statistics from the C.D.C., there were an estimated 30,900 cases of new acute hepatitis C virus infections in the United States in 2015. Hep C is curable, but the treatment is expensive. There are programs that will cover the cost, but most will only take addicts who have been clean for a month or more. I lost track of Jessica, as I have with so many friends from those days. I can only hope she got treatment. But, from a public health perspective, it would be far better to prevent the transmission of infectious diseases in the first place. The best way to do that is by dispensing sterile injection equipment. The Harm Reduction Coalition, which was founded in 1993, is one of many organizations working to build a nationwide network of needle exchange programs that provide IV drug users with free clean syringes as well as training in how to administer naloxone (trade name Narcan), the antidote to opioid overdose. The theory of “harm reduction” is born of the palliative notion that a person can be made safer and more comfortable even while he is actively in the throes of addiction. It concedes that “drug use is part of our world and chooses to work to minimize its harmful effects rather than simply ignore or condemn them,” according to the coalition’s website. But in many cities, it is hard if not impossible to find sterile injection equipment. Here in Florida, Palm Beach County is the only area that allows pharmacies to sell syringes without a prescription. When I could not stop injecting drugs, and yet held out hope that I might one day like to live, access to clean syringes, as well as to sterile water, tourniquets, sharps containers and filters for IV solutions, enabled me to evade scourges like H.I.V., sepsis and endocarditis, which grows like a culture around the valves of the heart and can require surgery. Back when I was buying drugs deep into Brooklyn’s ungentrified warrens, I’d often take clean syringes to addicts who were homeless, who either could not afford to or were not allowed to buy them from pharmacies. Such scarcity led many addicts to use the same syringe for weeks at a time. Toward the end of my active addiction last winter, when I was myself homeless and panhandling in the East Village, Lower East Side Harm Reduction Center, at 25 Allen Street, saved me from having to share syringes. I am fortunate to have been covered under my mother’s insurance plan, which allowed me the luxury of kicking smack in private treatment centers where all day long we drank Gatorade, and I took Valium for my restless legs while dozing to reruns of the “Forensic Files.” It was my mom who eventually insisted I commit myself to getting clean, and booked me into River Oaks, for which I’m grateful. Down here, passing from one detox center or rehab program to another is known as the South Florida Shuffle. “The Florida Shuffle isn’t necessarily going from bad place to bad place,” said Dr. Dawn Silver, the clinical director of the Comprehensive Wellness Centers in Lantana, Fla. “It’s being at one place with your insurance money having dried up, and needing to go use again in order for insurance to cover you again — and then finding a different facility that will pick you up.” Gaming the insurance rules like this is often the only way for addicts to keep getting legitimate and often lifesaving care, and to avoid ending up homeless. But it also leaves addicts vulnerable to “body brokering,” in which fraudulent treatment centers overbill insurers without really treating the patient. I did the shuffle for a while, getting lost in the run of days, phasing through detox and rehab, moving from Tampa to Boca Raton to Delray Beach to Lantana to Deerfield Beach to here. I have faltered along the way, but I have been sober now for six months. They say in recovery that relapse is part of getting well. The writer Maia Szalavitz put it beautifully in this newspaper when she wrote: “The ability to persevere is an asset: People with addiction just need to learn how to redirect it.” In 12-step meetings, tokens are handed out on anniversaries to signify periods of sobriety — 30 days, 90 days, six months clean, a year or more sober, as if we are doing time. However, I think that using time to measure the quality of one’s spiritual growth is reductive, and can actually refute progress. It is, of course, difficult not to contemplate time when one is speaking of recovery, from any illness; one hopes there are stations of progress to which he can look forward to, or reflect upon, fondly, when in the end things seem to have turned out O.K. Sometimes, when I am sitting around in therapy, or pedaling the elliptical at the gym, the thought will occur to me, not always, but from time to time, nothing serious, just a passing thought, a question — and I will think: Where am I? I think it is strange that I should still be in Florida, seemingly building a life. I did not plan for addiction, and neither did I plan for life after it. But I am every day learning to live again on the better side of sanity.