MONTCLAIR, N.J. — The first time I drive with my daughter, she makes a left turn without putting on her blinker. She says: “Want to know a funny thing about me? I never signal.” I say: “That’s not a funny thing. You have to signal.” My daughter shrugs — an adolescent Morse code meaning: Whatever/You don’t get it /Julia’s mom lets her do it. She’s relaxed as we tool around town, picking up a carton of milk here, a sibling there. From then on, for the rest of the summer, she drives us everywhere. According to suburban legend, teenagers are supposed to spill their secrets when you’re in the car together. This doesn’t happen with mine — it’s just a lot of questions about what we’re having for dinner. But one day, cruising down a quiet street, my daughter says, “I love driving.” This is better than a secret. I can still feel my first license in my hand — the heat of it, the freedom. I can’t wait for her to feel that, too. Junior year starts, and with it comes a cityscape of fat textbooks on the dining room table. Now every time I hand over the keys, my daughter says: “Can you drive? This is a very stressful time in my life.” Soon there are leaf piles by the driveway, and she says they make her too nervous to pull into the street. She won’t drive on Halloween because of the trick-or-treaters. And then it snows. Want to know a funny thing? This is a very stressful time in my life, too. I sit next to a colleague whose mother is my age. My jeans are snug. My eyebrows are balding. And I have a child who’s a junior in high school, which means that everywhere I go, people want to talk about one thing: college. “Have you started looking at schools? How many A.P. courses is she taking? Does she excel in a sport? Is she a leader? A volunteer? The valedictorian?” Depending upon my answers, the conversation splits, Choose Your Own Adventure-style, in one of two directions. If I demur, I land in the chapter about how sad it is that our kids are so overstressed. If I play along, we arrive at, “Have you guys made your list yet?” I hate this question. “We” aren’t going through the “college process”; my daughter is. One night my husband and I have dinner with friends who just got back from Japan. As we’re falling asleep, my husband says, “What does it say about me that I’d rather talk about Hiroshima than college?” I love my town, which we chose for its good schools and down-to-earth families. This is not a suburb where people care about your car or your lawn. But people do care where your kid is going to college. I care too, but I also want to make sure my daughter can take care of herself when she gets there. Does she know how to fry an egg? Manage money? Speak up in a crowded room? I may not be able to help with trigonometry, but I can show her these things. I can teach her how to drive. After a two-month hiatus, I lose my cool with my daughter one night on the way to swim practice. Buckling my seatbelt, I hiss: “Next time you’re driving. I’m sick of being your chauffeur.” She shrugs: Fine/I’m tired/Julia’s mom never yells. “You know, in the long run, it doesn’t matter how you do on the SAT,” I say. “It matters whether you know how to parallel park. Driving is a life skill. You need to practice.” She leans back and closes her eyes, looking the way she did as a baby dozing in my arms. Somehow in the heat of the moment, I forgot how she was hunched over “The Grapes of Wrath” when I went to bed at midnight; that she’s about to swim three miles and her hair will freeze afterward. From the locker room, she texts: “I’m doing my best. You know that, right? I’m under an insane amount of pressure.” I almost type, I am too — but then I realize, my stress is not her problem, just as her SAT isn’t mine. Instead I send a row of hearts. The next time I’m with someone who wants to talk about liberal arts versus Big Ten, I say: “Wait, hold on. How’s the driving going?” My friend bursts out laughing: “It’s a total nightmare! She doesn’t stop for pedestrians!” Both conversations — college and driving — are stand-ins for the real subject that’s keeping us up at night: Our kids are leaving home in a year. No more books all over the table, no more late-night cups of tea. I don’t want to spend our remaining time obsessing about where my daughter is going to college. Except for the tuition (deep breath), the destination is beyond my control. My daughter’s driving test is four weeks away. We — I mean she — hasn’t mastered parallel parking, but she has navigated New Jersey’s highways with aplomb befitting her middle name (Grace, like that of half the girls her age). When we arrive at a four-way stop, she waits for three cars to go in clockwise order. Then she slowly presses her foot on the gas. She says, “My turn,” and I know it is, and the knowing keeps me from barking at her to go faster.