LOS ANGELES — During President Trump’s fund-raising trip to Beverly Hills, Calif., this month — the first time he’d come to the official state of resistance since becoming president — a couple of friends of mine took to the streets, along with hundreds of others, to protest. But the visit was highly stage-managed, and Mr. Trump never faced the crowd; the most my friends could do, they said, was raise a middle finger to the sky as his aircraft flew overhead. It’s a funny image, but also a stark reminder that we have a president who assiduously avoids the majority of the public that disagrees with him. In the nation’s most populous state, people turned out to meet their leader, and their leader refused to appear. This reinforced something I’ve felt since the beginning of the Trump era: We’re all in the ghetto now. I grew up black in South Central and Inglewood, two Los Angeles neighborhoods shunned and distorted by everyone who doesn’t actually live there. Leave it to Mr. Trump to expand the racialized idea of a ghetto to include everyone who is not on his good side — in other words, most Americans. The new ghetto is first and foremost geographical. Mr. Trump simply doesn’t go to places he sees as hostile or irrelevant to his worldview, such as Los Angeles, or most college campuses, or actual ghettos. More significantly, he ghettoizes dissenters everywhere — from Black Lives Matter activists to F.B.I. officers — by ignoring and insulting them (the F.B.I.’s reputation is the “worst in history”), and crudely stereotyping them (crazy liberals, Mexican rapists). Progressives and even conscientious bureaucrats who are used to a place in the power structure are being frozen out. Many people find this disorienting, especially those who are used to being heard. But as a black American, I see a pattern of oppression that’s awfully familiar, part of a historical continuum. The ruthless othering practiced by Mr. Trump started long ago in the institution of slavery and perfected over hundreds of years. After the civil-rights movement, it morphed and hardened into a general indifference toward racial crises, crises represented most vividly by inner cities. Mr. Trump simply extends this same reflexive indifference to other crises, and to those who care about them. He thinks most movements for social good are a waste of time. They’re bad for business and television ratings, to say nothing of white male dominance, and so he relegates them to the shadows. Many constituencies in this country have been steadily ghettoized in this way; we’ve just failed to notice. On so many critical issues, like the Iraq war, abortion rights and gun control, the majority popular opinion has gone ignored, especially by Republicans. As the party has increasingly kowtowed to donors and to a small but influential voter base, the will of the rest of the people has become an inconvenience. It’s a metaphorical eyesore, a neighborhood to drive through with the windows up. White people don’t frame this kind of negligence as racial, but they should. Blacks do because they’ve lived the negligence, and still live it. (We live in a hypocrisy, not a democracy, as Malcolm X once said). Blacks have always known that America is very good at ghettoizing, at separating influencers from losers. It’s in our DNA to keep certain folks at the margins. Unfortunately, Americans are also very good at denying this truth, mostly because it conflicts with our democratic ideals. But even the most idealistic among us tend to see inner cities as Mr. Trump sees them — intractable, lowest on the totem pole, forever on the wrong side of the dividing line. We may be scandalized by Mr. Trump’s segregationist logic, but the logic is easy to follow. A world organized into essential and nonessential people makes sense in America, and always has. The biggest paradox is that the working class and poor white people who have been ghettoized by deindustrialization and outsourcing are among Mr. Trump’s staunchest supporters. They think they still live in a hallowed space because the president actually visits them. He holds rallies with them. He goes to their neighborhoods, he seeks them out and he pointedly includes them in his favorite pronoun, “we.” He flatters them with the idea that he’s one of their tribe. And as a white man, he is. But despite the appearance of favoritism, white working class Americans are as politically marginalized as Mr. Trump’s critics; they’re in the ghetto, too. If they could realize that, the oppressed in this country might make common cause, might find strength in numbers and in a diversity it’s never had. The lowly ghetto, in other words, might finally rise up.