Many Democratic voters and activists are giddy about their party’s chances of retaking the House in 2018. Savoring surprise victories in Alabama, Pennsylvania and Virginia, they have visions of a blue wave election. If political history were the only guide, they would be right. Polls in recent days have shown Democrats with around a 9-point average lead on the generic congressional ballot, which asks Americans which party they’ll vote for in the coming election. Under ordinary conditions, a lead that size would be more than enough to net the 24 seats Democrats need to regain a majority. But a big reality check is in order. Even the strongest blue wave may crash up against a powerful structural force in American politics: extreme gerrymandering. Pending court cases, including one scheduled to be argued before the Supreme Court on Wednesday (in which our organization filed an amicus brief), may change the terrain going forward. But no matter how the high court rules, its decision will almost certainly come too late to affect the 2018 vote. That means most Americans will participate in this year’s elections under gerrymandered congressional maps that were created in the wake of the 2010 Tea Party wave. Nearly a decade later, those gerrymanders are still tilting the House toward Republicans, particularly in a few key states. We conducted an analysis to measure how hard it would be for Democrats in each state to win additional seats under these gerrymandered maps. The results are sobering. In 2006, a roughly five-and-a-half-point lead in the national popular vote was enough for Democrats to pick up 31 seats and win back the House majority they had lost to Newt Gingrich and his Contract With America 12 years before. But our research shows that a similar margin of victory in 2018 would most likely net Democrats only 13 seats, leaving the Republicans firmly in charge. Just to get the thinnest of majorities in the House, Democrats would need around an 11-point win in the national popular vote. They haven’t come close to winning by that much in a midterm election since 1982. Of course, every election is shaped by local circumstances. There can be upsets. But because we know that the results in any given district tend to move in tandem with a party’s statewide share of the vote, we can reliably measure how likely it is that Democrats will win a district — and how “responsive” a map is to electoral shifts. The differences among the states are striking. Consider California, which now has its lines drawn by an independent redistricting commission. Free of partisan gerrymandering, its responsive maps ensure that as a party wins more votes, it steadily wins more seats, in an almost perfect version of what democracy should look like. Ditto New York, where a court-appointed special master drew a map in 2012 after the Legislature and governor failed to agree on one. By contrast, consider big purple battlegrounds like Ohio, Michigan and North Carolina. Voters are closely divided. But in 2011, Republicans had sole control of the map-drawing process. The extreme gerrymanders they produced ensure that Democrats will need a nearly unprecedented electoral earthquake to take any additional seats. In Ohio, Democrats would win their four current congressional seats with around 26 percent of the statewide vote. Our projections show they wouldn’t compete for another seat until their vote share reached nearly 55 percent, a total that they haven’t attained in any of the last six elections. In Michigan, Democrats would win their five current seats with around 38 percent of the statewide vote, but wouldn’t compete for a sixth seat until they reached 55 percent, a level they rarely reach in midterm years. In North Carolina, our research shows that Democrats would win their three current seats with around 30 percent of the vote, but would need to win an extra 23 percent of the vote to compete for an additional seat. They obtained a share of the vote this high only in the Obama wave of 2008. None of this means Democrats can’t win the House. This election could prove very unusual. Republican enthusiasm, fund-raising and candidate recruitment could collapse, while Democratic enthusiasm might push through the roof. But that will be cold comfort to Democrats if 2020 proves to be a more normal year and artfully drawn maps come back to bite with a vengeance. Republicans should be worried, too. That’s because there’s no guarantee they will be in control of the next redistricting, in 2021 — particularly if President Trump’s popularity continues to flag and Democrats succeed in making the 2018 and 2020 elections a referendum on the sitting president the way Republicans did in 2010 and 2014. If Democrats do replicate the Tea Party wave in reverse, Republicans will find themselves in a world in which Democrats are in the driver’s seat. All of this should serve as a warning to the Supreme Court, as it again takes up partisan gerrymandering. Our findings add to the abundant evidence showing the degree to which technology and data-fueled 21st-century gerrymanders warp democracy. There is good reason to hope the court will finally set bounds on partisan gerrymandering. But states can provide their own solutions — as California did when it went from being one of the most gerrymandered states to one of the least, after its voters chose by referendum in 2010 to make the process nonpartisan. Either path would guarantee that millions more Americans would get the government they want.