For all of the attention that we pay to our constitutional rights, we devote stunningly little attention to the more legalistic — but no less important — topic of how those rights are enforced. And as a largely unnoticed ruling last week by the full United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit demonstrates, the Supreme Court has quietly made it all but impossible for most victims of constitutional violations by the federal government to obtain relief. Not only is this development antithetical to the core purpose of having an independent judiciary, but it will almost certainly lead to more unconstitutional conduct by even the most well-meaning federal officers, who, in most cases, no longer have to seriously worry about the specter of judicial review. The case that the New Orleans-based federal appeals court ruled on involved the fatal cross-border shooting of an unarmed 15-year-old Mexican national on Mexican soil by a United States Border Patrol agent standing on American soil. The family of the victim, Sergio Hernández, sued the responsible agent, Jesus Mesa, claiming that the shooting was unprovoked and violated the teenager’s rights under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. Whether the Constitution protects a foreign national standing on foreign soil in a case like this is an interesting and still-open question. But rather than resolving that issue, the Court of Appeals held, by a 13-2 vote, that it didn’t matter; even if the shooting violated clearly established constitutional rights, the majority concluded, the federal courts should not recognize a remedy of damages for fear of intruding upon the legislative and executive branches of government. The debate over when (and whether) federal courts should recognize damages remedies for constitutional violations dates back to the Supreme Court’s 1971 decision in Bivens v. Six Unknown Federal Narcotics Agents. In that case, the agents forced their way into the home of Webster Bivens without a warrant, searched the premises, handcuffed Mr. Bivens in front of his family, arrested him on narcotics charges and later strip-searched him before dropping the charges. He sued for damages for trespass and mental suffering. The justices held that to vindicate constitutional rights in such cases, it would often be necessary for federal courts to interpret the Constitution as providing for damages as a remedy for constitutional violations even if Congress had not expressly authorized the courts to do so. After all, as Justice John Marshall Harlan II wrote, it would be “anomalous to conclude that the federal judiciary … is powerless to accord a damages remedy to vindicate social policies which, by virtue of their inclusion in the Constitution, are aimed predominantly at restraining the government as an instrument of the popular will.” But the Bivens decision has been a popular target for conservative commentators and judges, who critique it as an unjustified exercise in “judicial lawmaking.” To that end, the Supreme Court over the past three decades has slowly narrowed that decision, culminating in its ruling last June in Ziglar v. Abbasi, in which Justice Anthony Kennedy, writing for a 4-2 majority, suggested that such remedies would be “disfavored” going forward, effectively limiting the application of Bivens to its particular facts. In other words, unless a victim of a constitutional violation by a federal officer can identify an identical situation in which courts have previously recognized a damages claim under the Constitution, the Abbasi decision instructs the lower federal courts to reject the claim, no matter how clear and egregious the constitutional violation may have been. The Supreme Court’s ruling in Abbasi rested on two fundamental flaws — one of them doctrinal, the other, analytical. The doctrinal flaw was that the court completely ignored the rich history of damages suits brought against federal officers before the 1971 Bivens decision. Those cases were typically brought under state law, like a tort claim for trespass, and therefore involved an exercise of judicial power similar to the Bivens case in recognizing a remedy not specifically authorized by a legislative body. But state tort lawsuits against federal officers acting within the scope of their employment were prohibited in 1988 when Congress passed a law requiring those cases to be brought as federal claims, if they could be brought at all. Thanks to Abbasi, then, the choice in cases like these is no longer Bivens or state law, as it was in 1971; today it’s Bivens or nothing. Which is why the holding in Bivens — that damages remedies for violations of constitutional rights can be inferred when they are not explicitly authorized — is so essential to enforcing federal constitutional rights. As to the analytical flaw, Abbasi, like the Supreme Court decisions leading up to it, was based on an understanding of the separation of powers that is entirely backward — that judicial recognition of a damages remedy without express authorization from Congress would unduly commandeer the authority of the government’s political branches. But when, as in the Abbasi and Hernández cases, the right comes from the Constitution, it would defeat the purpose of having independent, unelected judges — to say nothing of constitutional rights in the first place — if the enforcement depended upon the government, the very institution against which the rights would be enforced. This is also why it is laughable when judges and defenders of these rulings suggest that Congress could fix the problem. Of course Congress could provide — as it has with respect to constitutional violations by state officers — for an express, statutory remedy in those cases. But Congress has no incentive to similarly provide a remedy against the federal government (which would necessarily come at the expense of taxpayers) — and it never will. As Justice Kennedy pointed out in Abbasi, courts have not shown the same resistance to enforcing the Constitution against the federal government when the constitutional violation is continuing — as we see in cases like the pending challenges to the travel ban. But the government can always make those cases go away simply by ceasing the purported unconstitutional conduct. And in any event, there are far more cases in which the constitutional violation was a singular event or ended long before the victim can make it to court — cases that, as Hernández underscores, now have increasingly little chance of success. That’s a troubling conclusion, because government officers like Agent Mesa will have less of a reason to worry about the constitutional rights of those with whom they interact. But at a deeper level, our constitutional rights aren’t worth all that much if there’s no mechanism for enforcing them. One can only hope that sometime soon the Supreme Court comes to its senses and agrees.