This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. #Census2020 The Trump administration’s decision to ask about citizenship on the 2020 census is a break from decades of bipartisan precedent. “By driving down response rates among immigrants,” Bloomberg View’s Michael Strain recently argued, “a citizenship question would probably cause those groups to be undercounted. This undercounting would help red states when it comes time to direct federal spending and apportion seats in the House.” On Russia. Meanwhile, the administration ordered 60 Russian officials be expelled from the United States after Moscow allegedly poisoned a former Russian spy in Britain. But Trump’s rare rebuke may still end up helping Vladimir Putin more than it hurts him, argues The Washington Post’s Ishaan Tharoor. “The thickening atmosphere of distrust between Russia and the West boosts his image in the mind of Russian nationalists,” and helps shore up Putin’s political power, Tharoor writes.  Linda Brown died this week, 67 years after she was blocked from enrolling in a whites-only Kansas elementary school. Three years later, in 1954, her experience helped lead the Supreme Court to strike down “separate but equal” segregation in American schools. “The fight of Linda Brown and her father led to the Brown v. Board of Education case, setting the stage for students like me to avoid the kind of discrimination she suffered,” tweeted Rolling Stone’s Jamil Smith. “I’ll always argue that she was one of the most important Americans who ever lived.” A dispatch from David. Overt racism is on the upswing. White supremacists are hanging banners and spray-painting graffiti. Anti-Semitism has surged on social media. And a man with a long record of making racist statements is now the president of the United States. But there is one piece of very good news: Younger Americans appear to be more opposed to bigotry than they were just two years ago — shortly before Trump’s election — and some studies suggest even more so than previous generations. If you’re tempted to despair about the state of race relations in Trump’s America, a recent piece by Jamelle Bouie in Slate is worth reading. “Donald Trump has returned explicit racism to political life, and his success has energized a new generation of activists and organizations committed to the expansion of white supremacy, by violence if necessary,” Bouie writes. “Less obvious, but just as critical, is a backlash and growing racial awareness among the youngest Americans.” Among the statistics that Bouie cites: 52 percent of millennials “point to discrimination as the main barrier to black progress, a 14-point jump from 2016, when just 38 percent agreed with the statement, according to the Pew Research Center.” To be clear, racism is not guaranteed to decline in coming years. Our politics are becoming more polarized by race, with the Republican Party becoming whiter and the Democratic Party less so. This polarization could nudge people to focus more on race, often in unhealthy ways. Amy Chua offers more on this possibility in her recent book on tribalism (and  Times op-ed). Beating back discrimination will require hard work, including political organization and one-on-one persuasion. And the country has a very long way to go. Even apart from Trumpism, there remain terrible racial inequities. But there are real reasons to be hopeful.