SINGAPORE — Days before winning the election in 2016, Donald Trump stood on a stage and directed an accusation at a tiny country halfway across the world: Singapore, he said, was stealing American jobs. Singapore is now on the tip of Mr. Trump’s tongue again — but this time, he’s expressing admiration for its death penalty for drug trafficking. He has reportedly invited government representatives to brief the White House on their approach to drug trafficking, including their use of capital punishment. Mr. Trump seems to believe he can learn a thing or two from Singapore. This is convenient for the Singapore government, which has been using the global opioid crisis as an argument for the retention of capital punishment. While the American media reported Mr. Trump’s praise for Singapore’s “zero tolerance” stance, the country hanged a 39-year-old Ghanaian named Billy Agbozo on March 9, and a 56-year-old Singaporean, Hishamrudin bin Mohd, on March 16. Both had been convicted of drug trafficking. These are the first two executions of 2018, as far as we know; information about imminent executions is not made available, and the prison service announces the number of hangings only in its annual report. But the borrowing of ideas hasn’t been a one-way street: the government here has taken a page out of Mr. Trump’s book. The new Select Committee on Deliberate Online Falsehoods is holding public hearings to explore measures for tackling “fake news.” The committee is meant to examine a range of options, but there are strong hints that new restrictions on the media are on the way, not least because the law minister, who is also a member of the committee, has already said that legislation is a “no-brainer.” Mr. Trump constantly proclaims that his “America First” policy will prevent the United States from being taken for a ride by other countries, while Singapore denounces foreign interference in its domestic politics. Yet when the occasion suits, both are more than happy to borrow ideas from elsewhere to control their populations. Such opportunism is the hallmark of authoritarians constantly on the lookout for ways to consolidate or expand their power. Both governments claim they’re solving urgent problems: to get the opioid crisis in the United States under control, to pre-empt disinformation campaigns that might threaten Singapore’s stability. But neither proposed solution is likely to solve the problem, and might even make things worse. Researchers have pointed to a lack of reliable data on drug use in Singapore to back up the government’s claims about the death penalty’s deterrent effect. The numbers offered by the state cannot be independently verified or may not present the whole picture. For instance, Ashok Kumar Mirpuri, Singapore’s ambassador to the United States,  declared in a letter to the editor published in The Washington Post this month that Singapore had halved the number of drug abusers arrested between the 1990s and 2016 — a state of affairs supposedly brought about by the country’s willingness to impose death sentences. Yet the government’s own data shows that the number of drug abusers in Singapore increased from 2003 to 2017. The rate of drug use in any society is a complex issue with many variables; without more robust data and independent research, claims of the death penalty’s effectiveness in Singapore are unverifiable. The Singapore government has pointed to the United States, among others, as a target of disinformation campaigns, arguing that measures have to be taken to pre-empt attempts that exploit social fault lines to sow divisions within society. But Singapore already has laws that include the criminalizing of the transmission of messages known to be false, speech with the tendency to “promote feelings of ill-will and hostility between different races or classes of the population,” even the uttering of words with the “deliberate intention of wounding” religious or racial feelings, on top of other regulations that give the government control over the mainstream media and the power to take down content. The government hasn’t been afraid of using these powers, either: Web publishers have been jailed for sedition and their websites ordered to be shut down, while bloggers have been sued for defamation or found to be in contempt of court. One teenage blogger, Amos Yee, was granted asylum in the United States after an American immigration panel found that his two prosecutions for wounding religious feelings in Singapore amounted to political persecution. Although government ministers claim that measures against “fake news” will not affect free speech, Singaporean activists have seen how broadly worded legislation can, and has, been used to curb dissent. As I write this, an activist is facing a charge of vandalism (among others) simply for pasting two sheets of paper on a subway car during a silent protest. Apart from vague reassurances, there is no guarantee that any new law will not be used to restrict speech and clamp down on civil society. Both Mr. Trump and the Singapore government have little time for human rights, civil liberties or even openness and accountability when there’s something they want to achieve. For Mr. Trump, the death penalty fits his favored straight-talking, tough-guy image. For Singapore, spinning “fake news” into a national security issue is a great opportunity to expand state control of the online space, where political discourse is freer than anywhere else in the country. It’s precisely this opportunism that requires civil society groups around the world to look outward even as governments look in. We need to build links so we learn from one another’s experiences. As politicians seize chances to grab power, undermine human rights and erode democratic processes, problems that exist elsewhere can very quickly become our problem too.