This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. First: “As I prepare to leave government, I am struck by a recurring thought: It should not be this hard to serve your country,” writes David J. Shulkin in The Times this morning. President Trump dismissed Shulkin yesterday from his post as secretary of veterans affairs. The Russia story. The Times reports that President Trump’s personal lawyer discussed pardoning Michael Flynn, Trump’s former national security adviser, and Paul Manafort, his former campaign chairman. Writing in Just Security, Harvard Law School’s Alex Whiting offers one legal interpretation: If presidential pardons were dangled in an attempt to keep the pair from cooperating with Robert Mueller’s investigation into Trump’s Russia ties, “it should qualify as a potential act of obstruction of justice.” That’s because the president has the power to issue pardons — but not to secretly offer them in exchange for silence, argues Asha Rangappa, a former F.B.I. special agent. “Even the immense powers of the president can’t be used as a bargaining chip.” Kim Jong-un goes to China. The North Korean leader’s meeting with President Xi Jinping of China this week suggests the two countries are setting aside their differences to advance a shared goal: limiting American influence in Asia, argues Ankit Panda in The Atlantic. China will likely play a key role in upcoming negotiations over North Korea’s nuclear program. “Meanwhile,” Panda writes, “the White House remains in chaos.”  Now, to millions of Americans, today is one of the best days of the year. It’s baseball’s opening day. Not all of the readers of this newsletter are baseball fans, we realize. Some of you live in countries that are largely bored or befuddled by the sport. So in honor of opening day, here is a quick story that has relevance beyond baseball. Dispatch from David: Moneyball. The New York Yankees have a 25-year-old player named Aaron Judge, who has emerged as one of the game’s stars. He is six-feet, seven-inches tall, weighs 282 pounds and hit 52 home runs last season. When he hits one, Yankee fans like to yell, “All rise!” Judge also seems to be a pretty nice guy (as this Sports Illustrated profile conveys). According to the website Baseball Reference, Judge was worth 8.1 wins last year. This means that Yankees probably would have won about eight fewer games if they had to replace him with a typical available player. The economics of baseball suggest that each marginal win is worth something like $8 million to a competitive team like the 2017 Yankees, which means Judge was worth tens of millions last year. And how much did he actually make? Less than $600,000. Now, that’s still a very handsome salary. But it’s also a ludicrously low salary for someone of Judge’s production, given how much money Major League Baseball earns from tickets, concessions, advertisements, clothing, television rights and digital rights. Remember, Judge’s surplus value didn’t get returned to the fans. Baseball’s owners pocketed much of it. Major League Baseball is now going through some strange economic times. Teams increasingly appreciate younger players who are at or near their physical peak, and usually turn out to be psychologically stronger than was long believed. They don’t wilt under pressure any more often than most crafty veterans do. Yet baseball’s owners and players have negotiated a system in which younger players are barred from negotiating on the open market. They must play for the team they’re told to play for — at an artificially low salary — typically through their 20s. Older players, by contrast, can become free agents, and many of them end up being paid much more than they’re worth. Sometimes, it all cancels out, and a player like Judge earns back his surplus value in his less productive 30s. But sometimes it doesn’t, and a talented young player is effectively robbed by baseball’s owners. It turns out that baseball is yet another part of American society — along with politics, the job market, the housing market and fiscal policy — in which the old are getting the better of the young. In The Times, Doug Glanville, a former M.L.B. player, offers his take on the sport’s opening day.