Legal journalists and bloggers have been having a field day with Justice Anthony M. Kennedy’s put-down of Justice Sonia Sotomayor during a Supreme Court argument last week. The argument came in a case challenging California’s effort to regulate “crisis pregnancy centers,” offices that look like abortion clinics but that don’t provide abortions. Some provide pregnancy-related medical services, while others don’t have a doctor on the premises and offer no medical services at all. The California law requires clinics without doctors to disclose that fact. Close to the surface of the case, although only obliquely confronted during the argument, is whether the clinics’ operating model is properly described as luring women inside by pretending to be something they’re not. Justice Sotomayor came close to making that accusation. Addressing the lawyer for the National Institute of Family and Life Advocates, the network of pregnancy centers that brought the case, she said she had looked at “a few” of the clinics’ websites and had come upon one that showed “a woman on the home page with a uniform that looks like a nurse’s uniform in front of an ultrasound machine” in what looked like an examination room. “I’m fairly sophisticated,” Justice Sotomayor said, and suggested that she might nonetheless have been fooled into thinking she was about to see a doctor. Justice Sotomayor and the lawyer, Michael P. Farris, went back and forth for a some minutes until finally Justice Kennedy jumped in to offer Mr. Farris a helping hand. “Well, in this case I didn’t go beyond the record to look on the internet because I don’t think we should do that,” he began. Aha! “Sotomayor Rapped for Surfing the Web” read The Associated Press headline on an article carried by news outlets all over the country. In a smart article in The Washington Post titled “Supreme Court Rule: (Other) Justices Shouldn’t Conduct Independent Research,” Robert Barnes, the newspaper’s Supreme Court correspondent, had great fun chronicling instances of research conducted outside the official record of a case by members of the Supreme Court including Justice Antonin Scalia, who died in 2016, the current Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and, yes, Justice Kennedy himself. Everyone was shocked! shocked! (or at least, amused) to learn there was research going on. In fact, the courtroom exchange opened the window on a subject as elusive as it is fascinating: How do judges know what they need to know in order to perform the job of deciding cases? The formal answer is that when it comes to the facts, appellate judges are bound by the record established at trial. Supreme Court justices, who of course never get near a trial, frequently consult the trial record; in fact, the court’s electronic docket, which lists the procedural progress of every case filed, often includes the notation “record requested.” But mastery of the facts is the beginning, not the end, of making decisions. The mantra that judicial nominees are expected to recite — “I just apply the facts to the law and, presto, come up with the answer” — is understood both by those who intone it and those who hear it to be hogwash. It begs the most important questions: Why does one fact matter more than another? How does each fact fit into the bigger picture? What if the facts, lined up in a row, fail to tell a coherent story? Judges, like anyone else, come equipped with basic assumptions about how the world works. Those assumptions have consequences. Justice Sotomayor learned about the criminal justice system on the ground as a young prosecutor in the Manhattan district attorney’s office and came away with a fine eye for everything that can go wrong in a criminal case. The only other former prosecutor on the Supreme Court, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., was the top federal prosecutor in New Jersey, and from that rather more elevated vantage point evidently concluded that the system works quite well most of the time. It’s hardly surprising that Justice Sotomayor votes frequently to set convictions aside, while Justice Alito almost never does. “Common sense has a place in adjudication,” Richard A. Posner, the recently retired federal appeals court judge, wrote in a 2014 opinion, Mitchell v. JCG Industries. That may be a comforting observation for Posner fans, of which I’m one, when the common sense in question is Judge Posner’s. But reliance on common sense — call it instinct, as Judge Posner sometimes has — can easily lead judges into dangerous territory. Justice Kennedy himself fell into that trap in 2007, in his majority opinion in Gonzales v. Carhart, the decision that upheld the federal ban on the procedure that abortion opponents label “partial-birth abortion.” Observing that “respect for human life finds its ultimate expression in the bond of love the mother has for her child,” Justice Kennedy went on to declare it “self-evident that a mother who comes to regret her choice to abort must struggle with grief more anguished and sorrow more profound” upon learning that her doctor terminated her pregnancy by this particular method rather than by another. Evident to Anthony Kennedy, perhaps — he cited no authority for his statement — but hardly self-evident. In fact, a brief filed in the case by two medical organizations described the relative psychological benefit of “partial-birth abortion” to women forced by medical problems to terminate a much-wanted but not yet viable pregnancy in the second trimester, which is when the method was used; the procedure allowed a woman “to see and hold the fetus, and mourn its death,” according to the brief filed by the American Medical Women’s Association and the American Public Health Association. Judges may or may not be sufficiently self-aware to identify their own instincts and perhaps wrestle with them; ideology is no more than “preconception writ large,” Judge Posner wrote in his 2010 book, “How Judges Think.” We accept that judges are human. But they are humans trained and expected to operate within professional constraints and norms. So what are we to think about judges who reach outside the record to do their own research? That 2014 case in which Judge Posner praised the utility of common sense became notorious in legal circles for the out-of-court research experiment he conducted. The question in the case was whether the time that employees at a Chicago poultry plant had to spend putting on and taking off their required safety clothing was long enough to entitle the workers to overtime pay under the Fair Labor Standards Act. How much time did the “doffing and donning” actually take? Ten to 15 minutes, as the workers claimed, or only two or three minutes, as the employer insisted? The record was bare on this question; the case reached the appeals court on summary judgment, meaning that there had not been a trial. Taking matters into his own hands, Judge Posner “decided to experiment with a novel approach,” as he described his action in the opinion. He bought a set of the safety clothing from the plant’s supplier (“It is inexpensive,” he noted). He then had three “members of the court’s staff” put the clothing on and take it off while being videotaped. The process took an average of 110 seconds. “This was not evidence,” Judge Posner wrote, adding that “the intention was to satisfy curiosity rather than to engage in appellate fact-finding.” His tone, for once, was a bit defensive, no doubt because of a pushback from a member of his three-judge panel, Chief Judge Diane P. Wood. Judge Posner’s majority opinion found for the company. Judge Wood dissented, objecting that the majority had both “erred as a matter of law” and “gone beyond the proper appellate role.” In 2011, the Supreme Court was asked to decide whether California could constitutionally ban the sale of violent video games to minors. (The case, Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association has gained new attention recently, now that President Trump has decided that video games are the cause of school massacres.) By a vote of 7 to 2, the court held that California’s law violated the First Amendment. Four years later, Justice Elena Kagan returned to Harvard Law School, where she had served as dean, and told a story in an onstage conversation with her successor as dean, Martha Minow. Justice Kagan said that in preparing for the argument, she and Justice Stephen G. Breyer realized they knew nothing about violent video games, and decided to play one. According to Fred Barbash in The Washington Post, Justice Kagan didn’t identify the game or where the justices had obtained it. The event took place in Justice Breyer’s chambers. “There we were, killing everybody left and right.” Justice Kagan said that Justice Breyer “thought it was really horrible, really disgusting and repellent, and I was like ‘next round, next round.’” Justice Kagan ended up voting with the majority to strike down the prohibition. Justice Breyer dissented. Episodes like these, harmless enough on the surface, strike me as problematic. Out-of-court research may give a judge only a partial view in favor of one side, with the other side not even knowing that the research is taking place and thus losing a chance to rebut the findings. For example, Judge Wood pointed out in her dissent in the poultry plant case that when the workers changed their clothes, they first had walk to a different part of the plant and wash chicken blood off their hands, activities that added to the time involved but that were not reflected in Judge Posner’s video. We all live in a world where information — or what passes for it — is available at our fingertips, on our phones. It seems churlish to suggest that we can all surf the web except for judges. But the reasons that have historically confined judges to the record have not evaporated along with the age of hot lead and cold type. It’s an issue unlikely to go away. Judges may curb their candor, but not necessarily their appetite to learn more. “The end of man is to know,” Robert Penn Warren wrote in “All the King’s Men,” his ever more timely novel about the use and misuse of information in politics. It’s only natural, only human, for judges to want to know more than the parties have told them. But there should be a line between facts — and attitudes — that judges can apply to the matter at hand, and those they can’t. The best the rest of us can hope for is that they have the wisdom, and the humility, to know the difference.