As a new generation inspires America with a wave of activism, let’s not forget those who came before. Despite its reputation for political apathy, being Gen X — post-boomer, pre-millennial — was about so much more than just watching John Hughes movies and figuring out how to eat sushi. Patrick Bateman wasn’t available, but others who lived through it shared their remarkable stories of Gen X activism:  Voter Turnout TROY: What you have to remember is that voting back then took time out of your day. And we were all very busy going to law school and trying to get through “Infinite Jest.” MEGAN: I remember sitting in my Imperialism and Globalization Theory class and my professor explaining how Republicans and Democrats were more or less the same. Those words resonated with me every November. AMY: I voted once. That counts, right? It was for Ross Perot. HEATHER: Oh, totally. It’s not like we were completely disengaged. I even stood in line for an hour to vote for Ralph Nader that one time. In Florida. COREY: The word “midterm” always reminded me of an Earth Science exam I almost failed. So … BRANDON: Oh my God, Ralph Nader! Loved that guy. Civic Engagement BRETT: The thing about pessimism is that it doesn’t really leave much room for stuff like volunteering or going to meetings. CLAIRE: “Caring” was actually frowned upon. BRANDON: When I was 14, my class organized a food drive. The night before we were supposed to bring in the donations, my parents told me they were getting a divorce. On the way to school, I spray-painted “KILROY SAYS STYX BITES” on the wall behind the Dairy Barn. I don’t recall what happened to those two cans of Green Giant sweet peas. I still think about that sometimes. HEATHER: My mom once dragged me to a picnic to raise money for school art supplies. Until this day, I still cringe whenever I hear the word “potluck.” Rebellion BRETT: Sometimes I’d skip school to show how much I rejected, like, completely everything. I’d go to the arcade, play Donkey Kong Jr., drop a couple of ’ludes and then just spend the rest of the day napping. COREY: I was just as likely to listen to the Sex Pistols as I was to Billy Joel. So … AMY: At one point I became fascinated with the 1960s because the young people challenged everything and changed the world. I was so into it that I used to pair a peasant skirt with my jean jacket. MEGAN: Yes! Jean jackets! Mine was punk-chic with a faux-fur collar. TROY: Later, of course, flannel plaid shirts were the way to signal you were against the status quo. HEATHER: I have more piercings than anyone else I know. No one can ever take that away from me. Protests AMY: Protests. Hang on. I’m sure there must have been some. Give me a minute to remember. [long silence] BRANDON: You mean like, riots? Economy BRETT: I bought no less than three homes in my 30s and foreclosed on all of them. Isn’t that ironic? BRANDON: No, irony is when the actual meaning is the complete opposite from the literal meaning. Like how I graduated law school and became employable just at the moment when I was unemployable because the job market was tanking. TROY: That is not the meaning of irony. Irony is when things turn out different to what you expected, like when you buy a Hummer H1 to mitigate the pain of your angst-ridden existence and instead it just puts you into credit card debt. MEGAN: So not true. Irony is a literary device, like when you’re asked to make a piece of art about something but then it’s about nothing. AMY: None of us were very happy about the economy. For sure. And we all knew something had to be done. Feminism AMY: Girl power! MEGAN: Women had choices and it was amazing. We could become housewives or lawyers. Or, if we wanted to have kids, housewives with law degrees. CLAIRE: I made my own money. I bought my own Carrie Bradshaw-inspired shoe collection and my own Acura Legend and my own stock options. I didn’t need a man to do any of that. Social Change BRANDON: Social what, now? MEGAN: The first Starbucks opened up in my town on March 20, 1991. I will never forget that day. It made me feel like I was part of something bigger. AMY: In those day, there were no red pills or blue pills. There were just chill pills. BRETT: My web retail company crashed on the same day that Florida had to halt the recount and George W. Bush won the election. I remember thinking, should I start freebasing cocaine? Or just become evangelical? CLAIRE: We were told Y2K was the end. That it was going to blow life as we knew it away. At the same time, no one really cared. HEATHER: In the end, it was just a few airport glitches, though. TROY: Now, that’s what I call irony!