RIPTON, Vt. — If towns could write personal ads, this one would be taking pen in hand for the first time in 42 years — making a pitch for companionship, a pitch aimed at finding someone who might be willing to take a chance on something a little out of the Twittery Trumpy twitchy mainstream. We’re a small place — 600 or so souls — on the spine of the Green Mountains in the center of the state, not far from Middlebury College. And we’re about to lose the heart and soul of our community, the husband and wife who have run our general store since 1976. Dick and Sue Collitt are retiring, and we need someone to buy them out and take their place. Because if you don’t have a store, you can’t really have a town. True, we live in an age when stores seem like relics. So far this year, thousands of big retail outlets have closed, including Toys “R” Us, as Americans shop online instead. It’s entirely possible that there’s almost no one left who thinks being a shopkeeper is a useful, fulfilling life. But it is, at least here. So here’s the pitch. Two hundred and twenty-five thousand dollars gets you the most classic of country stores, not in a Colonial Williamsburg kind of way but in a slightly sagging kind of way — there’s a potbellied wood stove up against the deli counter, right next to the coffee pot. There’s penny candy against the wall (Atomic Fireballs!). And pretty much everything else: brake fluid, animal crackers, 3-in-One oil, leather boot laces. The latest issue of North American Whitetail (“the big buck authority”). Eggs from local hens; pickled beets and sweet relish that some of the neighbors have put up. Lasagna noodles, rock salt, kitty litter, meatloaf mix, clothespins, starch, cupcake papers. A third of the store is given over to a rack of postboxes that undoubtedly will wind up in the Smithsonian someday, and a closet-size office for the postal clerk who comes by for two hours in the morning. You’d think losing all that retail space would be a drawback, but consider it again: Every one in town pretty much has to come by every day or two. Guaranteed traffic, right past the milk case. There’s a two-bedroom apartment upstairs and a small barn out back. It will be your world. Also out back, the beautiful Middlebury River flows through a deep gorge; out front, Route 125 leads up from the college town below, the conduit for a steady stream of bike riders who pause at the store to quench their thirst. In the winter, skiers stop by on their way home from the world-class Nordic trails two miles away, and from the family-friendly college ski hill a little farther up the pass. In the summer, authors from around the world flow in for the famed Bread Loaf Writers’ Conference; in the fall, the colors are unmatched. And so the business is steady, reliable. For someone used to a rural standard of living, it would seem fairly normal; for someone from Westchester County, N.Y., a big step down. But Dick and Sue put two sons through college on jars of peanut butter and fill-ups at the single gas pump. “We didn’t grow up here,” Sue said — they came from the Philadelphia suburbs, almost on a whim. “Our old friends have homes in Hilton Head now or the Jersey Shore, but they all think our life was the best thing anyone ever did.” Because, you know, people talk to you. All the time, all day long. The door opens with a jingle, someone walks in and there’s talk: weather, the news. “I don’t want to go,” said Sue, which is more than a lot of people can say about their jobs. “But it’s time.” If this were a regular personal ad, it would stop right here. You’d find out about the drawbacks down the road. But we don’t want someone arriving on false premises. So it’s worth knowing that taking care of a town is hard work. The store is closed on Christmas, and it’s open only four hours on Thanksgiving. Otherwise, it’s 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Monday to Friday, and a mere 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. on weekends. “One guy said he was interested in buying it, but he planned to take off a couple of months each winter,” Sue said. “I told him it wasn’t for sale to him.” And truth be told, it’s not for someone looking to fully belong to the 21st century. We do have internet, but your cellphone won’t do you much good in Ripton. Contrasted with, say, Amazon, the store is not exactly shiny. Without a Facebook account or a web page, the Ripton store has no e-commerce platform at all. Only a porch, with a bench for sitting, and next to it an ice machine. Or, rather, an IEC machine. “One year they sent a guy up to replace the unit. He was a big guy, as you’d expect, but not too bright,” said Dick. “He put in the machine, and then he put on the letters, I-E-C. I watched him do it. I was fascinated.” Over time the sign became an emblem. Ten years later, when the ice company replaced the machine, ICE was spelled right, but Dick carefully cut out his own letters and restored the sign to the original so no one would be disappointed. If this makes sense to you, then you might be the match we’re looking for.