This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. There’s not enough deep but respectful disagreement in political debate today. The recent discussion between Jamie Weinstein and Ta-Nehisi Coates is a welcome exception. Weinstein hosts a podcast for National Review Online. Coates, of course, is the best-selling author and Atlantic writer. In their 70-plus-minute conversation, they discuss racism, the idea of America and Coates’s career. Among the highlights: — Weinstein argues that wealthy black celebrities and black police officers, among other examples, undercut the notion of systemic racism, and Coates has an effective response. — Coates talks about how the #MeToo movement gave him empathy toward white people who feel guilty about racism. — Coates explains why Barack Obama’s paid speeches to Wall Street were a mistake. — Coates (shortly after the one-hour mark) offers a wonderfully succinct description of why so many journalists like their jobs. — An hour and 13 minutes in, Coates praises Kevin Williamson, then of National Review, as one of his favorite conservative writers — one with whom he often disagrees. After the podcast aired, Williamson was hired by The Atlantic, where Coates works, to some controversy. (In The Times, our colleague Michelle Goldberg makes the case against hiring Williamson.) If you enjoy the podcast — and Weinstein’s graciousness and sincerity, as Coates puts it — Weinstein has also interviewed The Times’s David Brooks. E.P.A. shenanigans. This week, the Environmental Protection Agency released scientifically inaccurate talking points on climate change. It’s preparing to roll back green vehicle-emissions rules. And its administrator, Scott Pruitt, recently declared that the agency would no longer use scientific studies that rely on private data to develop environmental policies. In truth, the former E.P.A. officials Gina McCarthy and Janet McCabe argue in The Times, scientists often keep sensitive data that’s critical to their research confidential. Billed by Pruitt as a measure to increase transparency, the move is actually “his latest effort to cripple the agency,” they write. Pruitt’s tenure has also been clouded by scandal, including lavish domestic air travel at taxpayers’ expense. Pruitt’s recent claim that he’s spent less on travel than Obama E.P.A. officials did “is, at best, laughably inadequate. At worst, it’s shockingly dishonest,” explains The New Republic’s Emily Atkin, who did the math. Unable to justify the expenses, she writes, Pruitt and his staff have “tried to distract with falsehoods.” Speaking of falsehoods … This week brought more personal attacks, doctored images and right-wing misinformation aimed at undermining the student activists from Parkland, Fla. “What we’re seeing here is a spreading stain, in which conspiracy mongering” is “peddled to a receptive audience softened up for decades by Fox News,” argues The Washington Post’s Margaret Sullivan.