A few days after the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., the Republican governor of Maryland, Spiro T. Agnew, strode into a conference room in downtown Baltimore. In the hours after King’s death, violence had broken out in the city; along with Washington and Chicago, it was soon occupied by the United States Army. In response, Agnew called together the black community on April 11 for “a frank and far-reaching discussion.” It wasn’t a discussion. It was a trap. The governor tore into the crowd for standing by while rioters ransacked stores and set cars on fire. They claimed to speak for racial harmony, he boomed, but when the violence began, “You ran.” Within minutes, most of the audience members had stormed out; at the door, they found a scrum of reporters, whom Agnew had tipped off. Within hours, Agnew’s confrontation was national news; within days, this once-obscure first-time governor was being assailed as a racist by the left and hailed as a rising star in the Republican Party. That summer, Richard Nixon picked him as his running mate. Fifty years later, we remember Spiro Agnew, if at all, as a bumbling vice president who later pleaded no contest to tax evasion, resigned in disgrace and ended his career funneling military surplus to Saddam Hussein and Nicolae Ceausescu. But his rise during the spring of 1968 is instructive because suddenly it feels so familiar: a white Republican who claimed to speak against radicalism and for the forgotten man, but in fact ran on exacerbating racial animosity. Far from a bit player, Agnew marked a watershed moment in American history, when the Republican Party committed itself to the shift from being the party of Lincoln to the party of white racial backlash. The shift was no accident. By the late 1960s, the Republicans were in a bind. Black voters, once loyal to the party, had fled to the Democrats, who had largely shed their Southern, racist faction in favor of civil rights liberalism. Racial conservatives in the South and working-class districts in the North were there for the picking, but aligning with outright racists like George Wallace was a dead end; he had an intense following, but he offended moderate voters, especially the millions of whites plowing into America’s postwar suburbs. The answer, party strategists realized, lay in the thorny questions raised by the civil rights revolution. It was easy for most whites to get behind ending Jim Crow in the South; it was harder for them to accept fair housing legislation or school busing, things that touched suburban New York or Chicago as much or more than they affected Atlanta or New Orleans. Things got even more complicated with the increased frequency of summertime urban riots — Harlem in 1964, Watts in 1965, Newark and Detroit in 1967 — and the rise of black radicalism (an exaggerated “problem”; most black radicals were more interested in community development than in violent revolution). Housing integration, urban violence and black radicalism were distinct issues, but coming at the same time, and hyped by the news media as part of the same story, they led many middle-class whites to conclude that the civil rights revolution had gone too far. Soon after the King riots, U.S. News & World Report warned of “a big protest vote at the polls in November,” noting that “some politicians are beginning to call it ‘the revolt of the middle class.’” Opportunistic Republicans pounced. Agnew was among the first — perhaps because he was both a political leader and exactly the sort of American the right sought to cultivate. The son of a Greek immigrant, he grew up in Baltimore, worked his way through law school, moved to the suburbs and implanted himself in the social milieu of postwar white America: Kiwanis clubs, bowling leagues, “The Lawrence Welk Show.” The man loved a good cardigan. Early on, Agnew positioned himself as a racial liberal — he won the governor’s office in 1966 by running to the left on civil rights against George P. Mahoney, a pro-segregation Democrat. But his mood soon turned. He became obsessed with black “agitators”; he had state law enforcement spy on civil rights activists, and when King was killed he shut down Bowie State University, one of the state’s historically black campuses, because he feared the students would riot. Like many conservatives in both parties, Agnew was convinced that the wave of rioting in the late 1960s wasn’t the expression of black frustration over urban unemployment, discrimination and police brutality, but was the result of a conspiracy by black leaders. “The looting and rioting which has engulfed our city during the past several days did not occur by chance,” he told his audience that day in Baltimore. Predictably, and justifiably, the state’s civil rights leaders excoriated him. But they were drowned out by the thousands of Americans who voiced praise. According to Agnew’s office, by the end of April 1968 he had received 7,588 letters and telegrams in support, against only 1,042 in opposition. The state’s suburban newspapers uniformly praised him as well. “He was blunt but honest,” wrote the editorial board of The Bethesda-Chevy Chase Tribune. “Governor Agnew is that type of man who is needed in the White House,” one letter writer told The Washington Post. Agnew wasn’t the only one taking a sudden hard line on the riots, or using them to build a case against civil rights liberalism in general. Nixon moved further to the right that spring and summer, abandoning his previous sympathy for urban blacks and adopting a fierce law-and-order stance. “The first civil right of every American is to be free from domestic violence,” he said in his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention in Miami. On the same day he uttered those words, Nixon named Agnew as his running mate. To political insiders and the media, Agnew was a disaster. He fumbled his speeches and once used a crude racial epithet to describe an Asian-American reporter. But as they did with Donald Trump a half-century later, pundits missed Agnew’s fundamental appeal. He said it like it was, and if he dropped an occasional racial slur, well, so did many white Americans. Nixon’s campaign that fall was built on what would be called the Southern strategy, but as the historian Kevin Kruse has noted, it was really a suburban strategy. Nixon played to the middle by eschewing the overt racism of George Wallace. But he deployed a range of more subtle instruments — antibusing, anti-open housing — to appeal to the tens of millions of white suburbanites who imagined themselves to be racially innocent, yet quietly held many of the same prejudices about the “inner city” and “black radicals” that their parents had held about King and other civil rights activists. The strategy worked. Though he beat Hubert Humphrey by just 0.7 percentage points, Nixon dominated the suburbs, which put him over the top in swing states like Tennessee and North Carolina. Whether Agnew made the difference is impossible to say. His significance, though, lies elsewhere. He heralded a new kind of virulent racial politics in America, one that pretends to moderation and equality but feeds on division and prejudice — one that, 50 years later, we are still unable to move beyond.