Seventy-five years ago this April Fool’s morning, a line of ticket buyers stretched down West 44th Street outside the St. James Theatre in Manhattan, and a policeman struggled to keep order at the box office. A new musical play had opened the night before and taken the town by storm. “Wonderful is the nearest adjective for this excursion,” this newspaper’s critic proclaimed, in a judgment almost universally shared from that day to this. The show was “Oklahoma!” The smash success was all the more remarkable because expectations for the show had been so low; there were plenty of empty seats in the theater on opening night. The play was the product of a midlife crisis for its creators — the lyricist Oscar Hammerstein II, crippled by a dozen straight years of Broadway and London flops, and the composer Richard Rodgers, coping with the loss of his longtime collaborator, Lorenz Hart, to incapacitating alcoholism. The Theatre Guild, the show’s producer, was on the brink of insolvency and had struggled to raise its bare-bones $90,000 budget. “Oklahoma!” had no big-name stars, no scantily clad chorus girls, and its plot turned on nothing more substantial than which of two men — a cocky cowpoke or a surly hired hand — would take a fresh-faced farm girl to a dance. It opened with a solitary old woman churning butter on the stage, and the cowboy singing in the wings about a “bright golden haze on the meadow.” Yet “Oklahoma!” was as radical and innovative in its day as Lin-Manuel Miranda’s “Hamilton” is in ours — and for many of the same reasons: It seamlessly blended story, song and dance, in the service of realistic character development, in ways that made the typical froth of 1940s Broadway musical comedy seem puny by comparison. The American musical theater would never be the same, and neither would Rodgers and Hammerstein, who would go on to resounding successes with “Carousel,” “South Pacific,” “The King and I” and “The Sound of Music.” At the peak of their powers, in 1957, 14 years to the day after the opening of “Oklahoma!” Rodgers and Hammerstein produced a live television version of “Cinderella” for CBS starring Julie Andrews. It was the most-watched television event in history to that point, seen by 107 million viewers at a time when the population of the United States was 170 million. But it was “Oklahoma!” that started it all. Beginning on the morning of April 1, 1943, tickets became all but unobtainable — for the next four years. When Hammerstein’s tenant farmer in Pennsylvania asked for a pair for his son’s wedding, the lyricist responded, “When’s the wedding?” The farmer’s answer: “The day you can get the tickets.” The show was a huge cultural phenomenon that resonated with home-front America in the midst of World War II. The story may have been set in turn-of-the century Indian Territory on the verge of statehood, but its subtext was the determination it had taken to tame the frontier — and by implication the courage it would take to defeat fascism in Germany and Japan. When the characters sang the joyous title song, with its proud anticipation of a “brand-new state!” audiences heard the promise of a brand-new world, one in which the citizens of the newly created United Nations might actually behave and “act like brothers,” in the words of “The Farmer and the Cowman.” There had been no such promise in “Green Grow the Lilacs,” the Theatre Guild play on which “Oklahoma!” was based, and which had a Broadway run of just 64 performances, in 1931. Its author, Lynn Riggs, a 29-year-old gay cowboy turned poet and playwright, had written an atmospheric tale in which Stephen Sondheim, for one, has discerned a hidden subtext about the loneliness of gay life in the American West. It was Oscar Hammerstein, a passionate liberal activist and, eventually, a staunch proponent of a movement that dreamed of a workable world government, who gave “Oklahoma!” its political content and message. That message was not lost on members of the show’s original cast. Celeste Holm, who played Ado Annie, the girl who “cain’t” say no, would recall how her grandmother, the chairwoman of the drama committee of the New York State Federation of Women’s Clubs, had assured her that the play would be “the most wonderful musical for right now, when people are going to fight for this country, and may die for it, to be reminded of the kind of courage, the unselfconscious courage, that settled this country.” And, indeed, at every performance, there were rows of men in uniform, sitting in seats especially reserved for them, or taking standing room before shipping out overseas. Sometimes, the New York City Fire Department bent the rules and let them stand in the wings. Just as Irving Berlin’s song “White Christmas,” from the 1942 film “Holiday Inn,” spoke to G.I.s stationed in distant battlegrounds, “Oklahoma!” became a symbol of home and hearth and the values that the Allies were fighting for. Decades later, the war correspondent John Hersey bore vivid witness to that fact. In 1979, on the occasion of a hit Broadway revival of the show, he wrote a moving letter to Rodgers, recalling a moment on the battlefront in Sicily in 1943. “I’d had a pretty crummy night,” he wrote, “sleeping on the ground, muddy and damp, nothing to look forward to but cold C-rations for breakfast. A G.I. who might perfectly well get killed that day (because though the Italians were retreating, there were some nasty skirmishes) got up and stripped to the waist and poured some cold water in his helmet and began to shave. The sun hit us. Everyone was grumbling as usual. Suddenly the soldier stood up and began singing, ‘Oh, what a beautiful morning.’ A pretty good voice. There was a fair amount of irony in his singing, and his pals laughed. All the same, it was a beautiful morning, and all of a sudden there was an almost unbearable intensity in the way the men looked around at the view.” Seventy-five years is a long time for a work of popular entertainment to remain topical. Perhaps audiences will continue to be stirred by “Hamilton” in 2090, three-quarters of a century after its opening. And if they are, it will be in part because of the transformation of the American musical wrought by Rodgers and Hammerstein.