What Facebook is selling to political campaigns is the right to bypass longstanding rules in order to act with impunity, writes Noam Cohen in an Op-Ed. Facebook offered the Trump campaign and its supporters cheap, direct access to African-American voters — and along with that the chance to mislead and intimidate. No one is really talking about school segregation anymore, even though it endures throughout the United States. That’s a shame because an abundance of research shows that integration is still one of the most effective tools that we have for achieving racial equity. Two experts offer perspective on why it continues and what we should do to combat it. The legacy of the Vietnam War still shapes America, even if most of us are too young to remember it. The Opinion section has been shining light on the conflict and its repercussions in a special series. Read the final installment, by a veteran writing about his scarred generation. In an essay last weekend, David Reich, a geneticist at Harvard, argued that science is changing how we think about “race” and urged a candid discussion of the findings. Many readers left comments, some worrying that the results could be misinterpreted or nefariously applied. Read his responses to some of the comments. This Op-Ed is by a Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School senior who once tutored the young man who committed a mass murder at her Florida school. She notes: “It is not the obligation of children to befriend classmates who have demonstrated aggressive, unpredictable or violent tendencies.” Her compelling essay was our most-read piece of the week. The Pentagon doesn’t want it. The military doesn’t need it. Only bigotry explains it. Even if trans issues don’t top the list of things you’re worried about, you should be appalled by the latest episode of kick-the-soldier, notes Jennifer Finney Boylan in a sharp response to President Trump’s latest effort to ban transgender soldiers from the military.  In the last three decades, 280 million Chinese people have left their villages for the booming cities in search of work, making up the greatest wave of migration in human history. Millions of these migrants leave their children behind, and several sensational stories have brought attention to the plight of these children growing up without their parents nearby.  When you have a child who’s a junior in high school, everywhere you go, people want to talk about one thing: college. Must this stressful process overshadow a child’s last years at home? Get lost in a temperate rain forest via this short virtual reality documentary. It is a feast for your senses, providing an immersive experience narrated by an acoustic ecologist looking for quiet in an ever-noisier world. So, we ran a perfectly fine Op-Ed by a researcher who studies dogs. She argues that the way we depict dogs in movies and social media often anthropomorphizes them and is degrading to the species, and if you care about dogs, it’s worth a read. We will note that it seems like many folks on Twitter do not want to give up on dog GIFs, and they let us know in proper style. Have a great spring weekend! 