NASHVILLE — I didn’t attend the local rally against gun violence on March 24, though more than 10,000 Nashvillians did. The march was planned by Abby Brafman, a Vanderbilt University freshman and 2017 graduate of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. I had out-of-town family visiting, so my husband, a high school English teacher, marched alone. A few minutes after he got to the rally, he texted me a photo he’d taken of himself standing in front of another marcher’s sign. It read, “Am I next?” For just a second, I couldn’t breathe. I had a similar reaction last summer when our oldest son, a new middle school math teacher, took me to see his first classroom. “Just look at all these beautiful windows!” I said. “Not exactly great for an active-shooter situation,” he pointed out. His words turned my heart to ice. Not only am I married to a schoolteacher, and the mother of one, I also have two younger sons in college. Not a single day goes by when I don’t worry about whether they will all be safe in their classrooms. Every parent in this country knows we’re taking a calculated risk when we send our children to school, to a concert, to a movie. The canned statement that used to make us roll our eyes at public events — “Please take a moment to familiarize yourself with the location of the exits in the unlikely event of an emergency” — has become our unconscious habit because such emergencies are no longer so unthinkable: Americans are now more likely to be shot to death than to die in a car accident. Everyone is worried about the threat of gun violence, and almost everyone has a clear idea of what to do about it, too. A new Fox News poll — Fox News! — showed strong bipartisan support for at least some forms of gun control: 91 percent of Americans support criminal background checks, 84 percent support mandatory mental health checks, and 60 percent called for an outright ban on assault rifles and semiautomatic weapons. “By a 13-point margin [53 percent to 40 percent], voters consider protecting against gun violence more important than protecting gun rights,” Fox reported. Here in the American South, however, plenty of people still ardently believe our trouble isn’t guns. Americans have “a heart problem,” not a gun problem, the House majority leader of the Tennessee General Assembly said last month. This is an easy conclusion to come to if you’ve grown up in a culture where guns are ubiquitous. My grandfather, a farmer, kept his shotgun hanging on hooks over the coat rack because it was not uncommon for him to need it. My father, a salesman who often had appointments in crime-ridden neighborhoods, carried a handgun on nighttime calls and taught me to shoot it when I was 14. It never crossed their minds that I or anyone else might pick up one of those guns without a very good reason. For my father and my grandfather, a gun was a tool. It was not a toy. They would not have been able to conceive of a world in which civilians could purchase weapons of war, a culture in which gun-entranced suburbanites could host birthday parties where children fire off AR-15s for fun at a homemade range on someone’s family farm. I will never understand this kind of thinking, but that doesn’t mean I don’t understand why a person in certain circumstances might need a gun. In 1982, my grandmother was sitting in a rocking chair just inside the door of a tiny grocery store in rural Alabama when a stranger walked in with a rifle and pointed it at the store owner’s head. My grandmother cried out a warning, and the man turned and shot her instead. While the intruder was busy firing five bullets into my 72-year-old grandmother’s chest and abdomen, the store owner retrieved his own handgun from beneath the counter and killed him. My grandmother was shot by a bad guy with a gun. She lived another 24 years because of the proverbial good guy with a gun. There is no need for polarities here. Most people who don’t own guns understand that some people might truly need to own a gun. Most people who do own guns understand the need to keep other people safe. But our legislators, in thrall to the National Rifle Association, do almost nothing to keep guns away from people who shouldn’t have them, or to keep the most dangerous weapons — those meant to inflict the greatest damage to the most people in the least amount of time — out of the hands of civilians. Tennessee has some of the most permissive gun laws in the country. You don’t need a permit to buy a gun here. You don’t need a license to own one. You aren’t required to register any gun you own. You don’t need a permit to carry a rifle or a shotgun. You aren’t required to pass a background check if you’re buying a gun from a private person. It’s easier to purchase an AR-15 in Tennessee than it is to become a licensed exotic dancer, as two employees of Déjà Vu Showgirls, a Nashville strip club, demonstrated in a recent YouTube video. Tennessee students are caught bringing a gun to school at twice the rate of the national average. The Tennessee General Assembly’s response to this unwelcome trend is to propose arming teachers. If passed, the bill, directed at campuses without a school resource officer, would allow a percentage of teachers to carry a concealed weapon. More than half the members of the Tennessee House of Representatives have co-signed the bill, though it is opposed by state education officials, the teachers’ union, the Tennessee Sheriffs’ Association and Gov. Bill Haslam, a Republican. It’s never a good bet to look for sane behavior from the Tennessee General Assembly, but the opposition to this bill gives me hope. I don’t want my husband to work in a school where teachers are armed. I don’t want my son to work in a school where teachers are armed. All I want is for this state — and this country — to keep anyone else from going to school armed. Judging from the Fox News poll results, this is an opinion nearly all of us share. How remarkable it is, at a time when Americans don’t agree on very much at all, for the response to a terrible problem to be so straightforward and so clear. We don’t need to repeal the Second Amendment. We just need to do everything we can to keep guns out of the hands of people who shouldn’t have them.