Congestion pricing was supposed to be “an idea whose time has come” for New York City. But in a budget deal announced on Friday in Albany, state leaders not only punted on the policy but also may have undermined its viability in New York and across the country for a generation. Everybody agrees that congestion in Manhattan’s central business district has become unacceptable: too many vehicles on the road and too few people in more efficient transportation options, such as public transit. Congestion pricing addresses this problem by making it much more expensive to drive in the city. People will do less of it, and the new revenue will improve public transit and make using it more appealing — a win-win that has proved effective in Singapore, London and Stockholm. In 2007, Mayor Michael Bloomberg proposed congestion pricing, but politics got in the way. In the interceding decade, the congestion problem grew much worse and our transit system has suffered crippling, consistent breakdowns. With the pressure mounting, Gov. Andrew Cuomo appointed a panel of experts who urged Albany to implement congestion pricing in New York City in three phases. The recommendation was well received, and the governor blessed it. “There is no doubt that we must finally address the undeniable, growing problem of traffic congestion in Manhattan’s central business district,” he said. It looked like congestion pricing might become a reality. But of course, politics has intervened. State leaders have tweaked the plan so that it will raise revenue but limit political risk — by excluding personal cars from paying, at least for now — and therefore have negligible impact on congestion. Congestion is caused by all vehicles, not just a fraction of them. The plan arbitrarily divides the vehicles that ply our streets into for-hire vehicles and applies a surcharge — $2.50 per trip for taxis, $2.75 for for-hire, $0.75 shared for-hire — and lets all other vehicles go free. Analysis from Charles Komanoff, a transportation expert who contributed to the Fix NYC report, finds that without congestion pricing on all vehicles, “the time savings from reduced traffic congestion drops by at least 60 percent. The revenues available to improve transit drop by 60 percent or more as well.” The real challenge for city streets is to move people, not cars, efficiently. Not only does Albany’s plan treat a significant fraction of vehicles as if they were invisible and took up no space; it also underplays an incredibly salient distinction — how many people are in a vehicle — by lumping all for-hire vehicles together. If one person alone in a car is bad (and it is), then two people in a car is better. Three is better still. Getting lots of people into a bus or subway is the holy grail of congestion reduction. While the Albany plan will charge pooled passengers a smaller surcharge ($0.75), it doesn’t go far enough to recognize the enormous benefits of ride-sharing and microtransit. In fact, on a percentage basis, riders in shared-trip vehicles will be paying a higher tax than those who choose to ride alone, and in some cases the total tax per vehicle will be higher too. During morning and evening commutes, Via transports six people per vehicle; the collective surcharge on those vehicles will be $4.50, larger than for lone riders in other for-hire vehicles and infinitely more than for the person driving his or her own car without charge. Independent research conducted in San Francisco finds that the regular Uber and Lyft services average 2.1 passengers per vehicle, yet neither of them will get a tax break because the services aren’t registered as “shared for hire.” Seventy-three percent of people who commute in their personal cars travel alone and won’t be paying a fee at all. We need to do more. In addition to Albany taxing all vehicles and providing strong incentives to vehicles that are transporting more people per square yard, there is complementary policy work to be done by the City of New York. It should increase the cost of on-street parking where personal cars lie immobile 95 percent of the time, obstructing flow. We must allocate more space to modes that provide more throughput of people (bike, bus and high-occupancy-vehicle lanes). It has taken us 10 years to get congestion pricing back into the public discourse, and in those years, technology has transformed what is happening on our streets. Hailing and microtransit apps have introduced a convenient way to get around town and increased the number of vehicles in the city. The rise of on-demand delivery has made shopping and meals a click to order and given rise to an epidemic of double-parking. Had we instituted congestion pricing back then, the shape and use of these services would be wholly different today. Over the next 10 years, we’re probably going to see the introduction of self-driving cars. Whoever owns one is going to send it out to run all sorts of errands, many of them with no one in the car. Those empty personal cars aren’t going to care about sitting in traffic. We need to charge a price that makes owners think twice about sending out a car during peak times with few or no people inside. Regardless of the innovation, the challenge remains the same: moving metal boxes through limited street space while allowing maximum access for people and goods. Getting the market signals right for parking, congestion, curb access, infrastructure and public transit matters more than ever. We shouldn’t have waited 10 years to get to this point. We can’t build our way out of it. This is the moment to improve the livability and economic viability of New York City. Let’s do it right, right now.