The Sinclair Broadcast Group, the country’s largest television broadcaster with 193 news stations, recently forced local news anchors across the country to read identical scripts. The anchors warned, without a hint of irony, that “some members of the media use their platforms to push their own personal bias and agenda to control ‘exactly what people think.’” It is, they said, “extremely dangerous to a democracy.” Indeed it is. And it is exactly what Sinclair is doing, even as the company is trying to use a regulatory loophole and the President Trump-pliant Federal Communications Commission to acquire 42 more broadcast properties in a $3.9 billion merger with Tribune Media. However, the propaganda is not something new; it has been going on for at least a decade and a half now. I know: I once worked there. Sinclair shouldn’t be allowed to gobble up another 42 stations to add to its outsize and deleterious role in our civic life. [Get more of the biggest debates of the day right in your inbox by signing up for the Opinion newsletter.] In 2004, with the re-election effort of George W. Bush in full swing, I was asked to become an on-air contributor for Sinclair — which was not well known at the time — a Baltimore-based entity owned by  right-wing brothers with the perfectly banal name Smith. I was hired to be a political analyst. In reality, this most often meant appearing in debate segments against both a conservative pundit and a Bush-administration-glorifying news host. The station’s far-right slant went well beyond that setup, to a place that should be troubling for a democracy that values a free press. I saw numerous sets of talking points and scripts for anchors to read on-air arguing that George W. Bush was “winning” the war on terror, smiting “feckless Democrats” trying to undermine the United States. Two journalists employed at Sinclair at the time told me how a company executive sent them to Iraq with “instructions” to cover “positive” narratives of the war. When each of them also returned with more accurate, nuanced stories of bloodshed, chaos, civilian lives lost and casualties among United States troops, most of these accounts were placed on the back burner, never to be seen again. I once asked a top editor about the overwhelmingly conservative culture throughout Sinclair management, and he, a self-described “Lieberman Democrat,” admitted with a chuckle that the ownership and executives were strongly right wing. That included my usual counterpoint, Armstrong Williams, the conservative pundit and Smith brothers business partner. Mr. Williams, most recently an adviser for the ill-fated effort by Ben Carson to best Mr. Trump in the Republican presidential primaries, would eventually be exposed as having been paid $240,000 by the Bush administration to covertly propagandize in favor of its No Child Left Behind initiative during those media appearances with me and others. It should be no surprise that in an administration whose propaganda efforts make Mr. Bush’s seem quaint we find our democracy in thrall to a corrupt deal between Jared Kushner and Sinclair. The latter provided pedal-to-the-metal, positive coverage of Mr. Trump in the presidential election campaign. Now we find the Trump administration and its handpicked F.C.C. chairman, Ajit Pai, supporting Sinclair’s efforts to bring its spooky anchor hostage videos to 72 percent of the households in the United States. The potential deal also received direct support from President Trump, who tweeted Monday that “Sinclair is far superior to CNN and even more Fake NBC.” As Craig Aaron, the president and chief executive of Free Press — an advocate of diverse and independent media ownership that filed a formal challenge to the Sinclair-Tribune merger — stated Monday, “This Trump-Sinclair love affair looks like a quid pro quo — and it should be a national scandal.” Many Americans don’t even know that news is supposed to provide a “public good.” The Sinclair statement, at least in part, lays out what many people think of as the purpose of journalism: “It’s our responsibility to pursue and report the truth. We understand truth is neither politically ‘left nor right.’ Our commitment to factual reporting is the foundation of our credibility, now more than ever.” That part sounds legitimate. But when you understand Sinclair management and the ways that it manipulates news, and take in the full ideological context, you see it for what it is: anti-journalism, or propaganda. Last month we saw the courageous act of a patriot, Ralph Peters, a retired Army lieutenant colonel who ended his role as an analyst for Fox News. He said that decades ago, “I took an oath to ‘support and defend the Constitution.’ As Fox’s assault on our constitutional order intensified, spearheaded by its after-dinner demagogues, I had no choice but to leave.” I saw the same from the Washington bureau chief at Sinclair, Jon Leiberman, around the time I was there. This Bush voter walked out of a Sinclair meeting and straight to the media to expose the propaganda Sinclair promulgated. We must rediscover the term “public good,” holding entities like Sinclair and Fox News to account for disseminating outlandish propaganda. Yes, we treasure our First Amendment, but we also treasure our democracy. Maybe it’s time to bring back the Fairness Doctrine. Certainly it is time to force the F.C.C. to follow the law and fulfill its mandate under our laws to promote diversity of access to the public airwaves. In the end, we must all rededicate ourselves to democracy. Allowing our media to become the province of a few ideological extremists bent on ownership of our airwaves is not just bad for the republic. It could be its end.