Tyler Pager is the winner of Nicholas Kristof’s 2018 “Win-A-Trip” contest to take a university student on a reporting trip. Mr. Pager, 22, graduated from Northwestern University and is now studying at Oxford University. He and Mr. Kristof recently traveled to Central African Republic, a small, landlocked country in the middle of the continent. You can read Mr. Pager’s first dispatch here.  BAYANGA, Central African Republic — We piled into the car just after 5 a.m. Saddled with energy bars and liters of water, we began the long journey back to Bangui, the country’s capital, after spending a few days observing the World Wildlife Fund’s gorilla and elephant conservation efforts and health work with the local Pygmy population. At the break of dawn, we couldn’t see much beyond the car’s headlights, but we felt the dirt road beneath us with every bump and swerve of the vehicle. As we continued, it became clear the road presented numerous obstacles to a smooth passage. Puddles turned to small ponds as rain fell. Forest brush lay scattered across the road. Bridges had broken beams or missing pegs. Bayanga is 340 miles from Bangui, which is roughly the distance between New York and Pittsburgh. The trip in the United States would take about six hours along a smooth six-lane highway. Our drive, along a mostly unpaved one-lane road, took more than 15 hours; in the rainy season, our driver said it could surpass 20. Instead of tollbooths, there were armed checkpoints, and paperwork from the World Wildlife Fund served as our E-ZPass — except automatic entry was far from guaranteed. Sometimes, cash was required to continue on our way. In most places, the distance between cities is shrinking thanks to multilane highways, high-speed trains and improved planes. Yet that reality is far from what we experienced on the ground in Central African Republic, where a sturdy vehicle with four-wheel drive is necessary to travel outside the capital. As a result, the one road we traveled on for hundreds of miles remained largely vehicle-free: We passed fewer than 10 cars before reaching the paved road outside Bangui. One of the few vehicles we passed, a truck overflowing with miners, swayed from side to side as it crawled down the road. Dozens of men in hard hats filled the back of the truck, but a slight change in weight seemingly had the potential to turn the truck on its side. As Nick Kristof wrote in his first column from our trip, resolving conflict should top humanitarian efforts because there’s little that can be accomplished in times of conflict. But in stable areas — such as the southwestern part of CAR where we traveled — investments in infrastructure, particularly paved roads, should take precedence. Without working roads to transport people and goods, economic opportunity is difficult to find. The empty road laid bare this reality in CAR, where people throughout the country are deprived of essential resources. The Global Hunger Index ranks the country as the hungriest in the world, and in a place that’s arguably the world’s most neglected political and humanitarian crisis, government doesn’t exist in most places to fill in the gaps. Compounding the political instability, the United Nations says its humanitarian plan for the country is only 2 percent funded. So although we didn’t see any road improvement projects in our travels, it’s encouraging that the World Bank has invested in some construction projects to improve trade with neighboring countries. However, more robust foreign investment, which is required for large-scale infrastructure projects, is unlikely to precede peace. And when people can’t move from one place to the next, it causes all sorts of problems. As we stopped in villages along the road, we found many children didn’t attend school and medical services were out of reach. Others lamented the lack of access to markets to sell their goods. The distance to these critical places — and the inability to get there — was almost always the prohibiting factor. A paved road would probably make those trips more feasible. Throughout our time driving in CAR, we passed through numerous villages that, as locals explained, have sprouted up on the road’s edge as communities have moved out of the forest. We watched as two boys kicked a soccer ball back and forth, each with only one cleat and one long sock. Young children raced handmade toy cars, assembled out of sticks, leaves and empty food containers. Dozens of people bathed and swam in the roadside streams. But because of the lack of economic opportunity, people also use the road to try to create their own. During one part of our journey, for instance, we encountered a few young men with shovels in tow. They had just filled in some of the gaping holes in the road and placed a large tree branch across it, fashioning a makeshift checkpoint. They were looking for compensation for their roadwork. At one armed checkpoint, children descended upon our car, each offering a stalk of bananas or handmade crafts. In another small town, we met a young boy, no older than 14, running a shop that sold snacks, soccer balls and a selection of school supplies. When we stopped to refill our car with gas, our driver bought cassava from women who balanced large buckets of it on their heads. Still, despite enthusiastic efforts of roadside opportunists, the absence of reliable roads remains an insurmountable barrier to economic opportunity. This became even clearer once we reached the paved roads outside Bangui. We started passing by the resources the many people we met along the way longed for. We saw schools, including a university; medical clinics; a hospital; and a large outdoor market lined with small shops. Yet the people we met could never reach them.