This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. “I make all of our decisions based on what’s going to matter to our community and improve the experience, and focus much less and very little on the advertising side of the business.” That’s Mark Zuckerberg, in a fascinating new interview about Facebook on Ezra Klein’s podcast. Zuckerberg casts himself as a kind of enlightened despot. As he tells it, he doesn’t worry about money. He worries about what’s best for Facebook’s users, which in the long term will help Facebook’s business. And because he controls a majority of the company’s voting shares, he can ignore Wall Street’s demands for short-term profits and just do what’s best for Facebook’s two billion users and the rest of the world. There are two big weaknesses in this argument. One, Zuckerberg and his fellow Facebook executives aren’t perfect. Some decisions they believe to be for the best are actually mistakes (such as pooh-poohing “fake news” in 2016). Given Facebook’s power, society has a big interest in reducing those mistakes — but no clear way to do so. Two, Zuckerberg cares more about Facebook’s profits than he often admits. In fact, it’s his fiduciary duty to care about those profits, as Facebook’s chief executive. So what happens when Facebook’s business interests and society’s broader interests aren’t aligned? I think the solution to these problems is clear in broad strokes — if still very uncertain in the details. Facebook, along with other huge technology companies, needs stronger government oversight. Zuckerberg, to his credit, comes close to acknowledging as much. Referring to disputes about what can and can’t appear on Facebook, he tells Klein: “One of the things that I think we’re going to need to work on a lot going forward is, it’s just not clear to me that us sitting in an office here in California are best placed to always determine what the policy should be, for people all around the world.” I recommend the whole interview. Zuckerberg comes across as thoughtful about the broader issues that Facebook has created. It’s very easy to imagine a C.E.O. who could be much less thoughtful. But even enlightened despots are despots, and I don’t think that Zuckerberg should be permitted to have as much power as he currently does. How to regulate the tech giants is looking more and more like one of our era’s great unsolved policy questions. Elsewhere: Slate’s April Glaser offers some ideas for better regulation of Facebook. School cuts. Teachers are striking in two more states — Oklahoma and Kentucky — and the recent cuts to school budgets are a big reason. Over the last decade, Oklahoma’s per-student spending has fallen 16 percent, and Kentucky’s is down 6 percent. (Michael Leachman, Kathleen Masterson and Eric Figueroa have more details, including numbers for every other state, in this report for the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.) These cuts not only make teachers’ lives harder. They’re about the worst economic-development strategy than any state could have. Trump News Network. Fox News has been the most politically influential media company of the last two decades. The Sinclair Broadcast Group is likely to be one of the most important political voices in coming years. It’s a very conservative company that runs more than 170 local news stations around the country and is in the process of buying dozens more. Sinclair has been in the news over the last couple of days after ordering its anchors to read a statement about “biased and false news” that echoed President Trump’s attacks on the media. Sure enough, Trump sprang to Sinclair’s defense on Twitter yesterday, while berating other networks. There’s real reason for concern here. Sinclair’s work borders on propaganda at times (suggesting, for example, that voters should not support Hillary Clinton because of the Democratic Party’s historical ties to slavery, as Sydney Ember of The Times reported). Yet, like Fox, it portrays itself as a news organization. Sinclair also has the advantage of being a local news organization that can often seem above partisanship, David Zurawik, The Baltimore Sun’s media critic, pointed out on CNN. “It’s the local people … who are delivering these messages,” Zurawik said. “They’re not people from New York or Washington who you can dismiss — much more powerful.” In her column today, Michelle Goldberg compares Sinclair to the tools of autocrats in other countries.