Last week, the Trump administration decided that the next census would ask every person in the country about their citizenship. An uproar followed. Minority communities will bear the most immediate brunt; indeed, some believe that’s the very reason for the change.  But the related assumption — that the decision benefits Republicans — may be strikingly myopic. The Census Bureau collects a lot of information to inform public and private decision making. The most important is what is called the decennial enumeration: a head count, every 10 years, of each and every individual in the country. An accurate census is the Constitution’s first specific job for the federal government, five sentences into our founding charter. It’s the thing that drives political representation and billions of dollars in funding. To ensure the accuracy of the constitutionally required count, the decennial enumeration is designed to be minimally intrusive: 10 questions taking 10 minutes or less. For those who in this climate distrust the federal government, adding a question on citizenship makes the head count toxic. Its intrusion into the census could well have unanticipated consequences for the long-term distribution of power and money. Census results drive both political representation and funding — for large groups of people in broad areas. This means the decision to roll loaded dice on enumeration does not merely impact undocumented individuals, or permanent residents or minority citizens. Everyone in an area that loses numbers also loses clout and cash. Yes, an undercount affects urban minorities — but also conservative rural agricultural communities dependent on farmworkers, and plenty of areas in between. Those in power may feel threatened by swiftly growing local populations contending for recognition. But they are lashed to one another by the population count. When fear and distrust impair the census response, the old locals feeling threatened and the local newcomers both lose, cutting off the nose of the national portrait to spite its face. The effect grows particularly across state lines. In the competition for power and funding, the absolute number of noncitizens is less significant than the comparative level of government distrust. Less trust means less census response. The larger the state, the larger the population growth; and the more that growth depends on minorities, the larger the impact of that comparative distrust. Consider Texas. As in other growing states, its population boom has been fueled by minorities. An accurate census count should deliver Texas billions of additional dollars in federal grants and perhaps an extra three or four congressional seats most likely drawn by Republican legislatures. If Texans are substantially less likely to fill out the census forms than residents of other states, those benefits vanish. For all Texans. The other big states at the top of the growth charts? Florida, Washington, Arizona, North Carolina and Georgia: red states aplenty. California is next, but also feverishly working to bolster its census response. “Love thy neighbor” turns out to be good fiscal policy; jurisdictions comparatively less responsive to their minority communities may have more to lose. The path to this decision was appalling. The census is our largest civilian mobilization; because tiny modifications can have giant effects with 10 years of lingering impact, the Census Bureau rigorously tests every change. Except this one. It was simply announced, over the apparent objections of nonpartisan staff members, by Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross. Mr. Ross said he did not know whether the change would cause a big problem, and so they should forge ahead. The Titanic was launched with more preparation and less hubris. The decision is also based on transparent pretext. The Justice Department claimed the change would help enforce the Voting Rights Act by generating more precise data. But that is a tiny nugget of rationale buried in a mound of manure, which explains why voting rights advocates are livid. In this climate, amping up the question’s prominence will decrease response from anyone who distrusts the federal government. The end result will be more “precise” but substantially less accurate. Performance-enhancing drugs that cripple the patient don’t actually enhance performance. The combination of haste and pretext lacing into a vulnerable population has become a tragically familiar brew of late. On this issue, it is not yet too late to change course. Adding the citizenship question to the decennial enumeration at this moment represents at best extreme recklessness, and at worst the weaponization of statistics, upending a basic constitutional command. Americans across the political spectrum should be alarmed. And those thinking they may benefit from the tumult may find themselves unexpectedly tied to the most vulnerable in their midst.