“I have two words to leave with you tonight,” the actor Frances McDormand said at the Academy Awards last month, during her acceptance speech for Best Actress. “Inclusion rider.” With that, she inserted the fusty concept of contract negotiation into the debate over how to fix Hollywood after #MeToo. An inclusion rider is a clause actors can insert into their contracts to require a level of gender and racial diversity among a film’s cast and crew. Celebrities like Michael B. Jordan, Ben Affleck and Matt Damon have endorsed the idea. But like all contractual fixes to structural imbalances of power, inclusion riders provide, at best, a limited increase in representation. At worst, they become a cosmetic fix that inoculates people in power from critique and meaningful change. By focusing on one-off individual negotiations, any contractual solution by definition misdiagnoses the way that power works. The enduring myth of contract law is that when two parties come to the table to negotiate, they are equals. This is not reflected in reality, but it’s even more glaring in the movie industry. Harvey Weinstein, as the head of his eponymous film company, was able to hide his disgusting and illegal behavior because he had more power than the actresses he violated. That was also true when his associates sat down with actresses to hammer out details in their contracts. Inclusion riders will reinforce rather than break down power disparities like this. For example, we know the headliner actors that have more equal bargaining power with studios are disproportionately white and male. They may use that power to negotiate a “feel good” inclusion rider calling for tertiary speaking roles in films to be more diverse. But they will never demand that their own roles be replaced by someone of a different gender or race. Inclusion riders shift the burden of equality, essentially requiring that the very parties who the riders are claiming to protect (the marginalized and disempowered — the silenced) do the work of enforcement. Say a major Hollywood celebrity is working on a movie and he has negotiated an inclusion rider. There are two ways he might discover that the rider has been violated. One is by doing his own investigation, somehow finding out the details of every level of every hiring decision on every element of the production, like editing, cinematography, sound and costuming. The other is being informed by people covered by the rider who had managed to get hired despite the non-inclusionary methods of the production, or who were passed over for a job. It’s not feasible for that celebrity to know and be involved in every minute level of the production, so the second scenario is much more likely, although in reality just as improbable. This is how inclusion riders shift the burden from the studios to the people the policy is claiming to empower. The idea that the only black boom operator should police the diversity of a set and then report to the star where the diversity is lacking is improbable and unfair. The questions presented by inclusion riders are the stuff of law professors’ dreams and judges’ nightmares: Who will enforce the agreement? How will damages be measured? To whom will they be paid? Not to mention the cognitive dissonance of the notion that an inclusion rider can somehow empower minorities and women in an agreement to which they aren’t even a party. Inclusion riders may allow for a path forward where a lack of diversity is considered simply a cost of doing business. A production company could reap all the social benefits of being known for having such riders, and instead of meeting any of the requirements, it could decide that whatever penalty it may face is cheaper than honoring them. Moreover, if the world of employment contracts becomes divided into those with inclusion riders and those without, it’s possible to see a world in which a studio without inclusion riders essentially has a license to discriminate. Instead, the burden should be on white and male celebrities to realize that much of their power stems from their whiteness and maleness and to step back and empower marginalized people to have more roles on their sets, on and off camera. In addition, studios could change their policies and actions. People in power should simply hire as many women, people of color and L.G.B.T. people as possible. They should do so even at the perceived expense of white people, and even if those candidates are viewed as somehow “less qualified,” with the understanding that those perceptions are culturally fixed in racist notions and structures. Public law, public shaming and public action are the most effective means of forcing change. Private contracts are not. We should stop supporting inclusion-rider advocates like Mr. Damon and Mr. Affleck until we see actual tangible proof of their commitment to inclusion and equality. Instead, we should support artists like Ava DuVernay, Issa Rae and Solange Knowles, who have quietly just been doing equality and inclusion for years. Equality is not something that comes down from on high at the whim of the people in power. If inclusion riders become industry standard and do lead to real change, that could be a huge step forward. But for now, it’s an empty promise.