This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Decades later, the story of the civil rights movement can seem so tidy — so virtuous and inevitably victorious — that it loses some of its inspirational power. In its own day, though, the movement had much in common with today’s political struggles, over justice, democracy and equality: It involved more defeats than victories. It often felt contaminated by the grubbiness of partisan politics. And its leaders were human, which is to say that they were flawed and that they made many mistakes. Today, of course, is the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr., killed in Memphis while he was supporting striking sanitation workers. King is now such a widely revered figure that many remembrances of him lack substance. But there are plenty of ways to celebrate what he actually stood for: not just moral clarity but also courage, toughness and resilience in the face of frequent setbacks and vicious criticism. You can read his final speech, delivered in Memphis the night before his death, or you can listen to it. Don’t settle for the usual quick outtakes. The famous lines — like “I’ve been to the mountaintop” — aren’t the only worthwhile ones. “Let us rise up tonight with a greater readiness. Let us stand with a greater determination,” King said. “And let us move on in these powerful days, these days of challenge, to make America what it ought to be.” Another option: If you haven’t yet read Taylor Branch’s great book, “Parting the Waters,” you can start it. It remains one of my 10 favorite books, on any subject. You can also watch the new HBO documentary that Branch created along with Trey Ellis, Jackie Glover and others. (If you don’t have HBO, you’ll need to wait a bit.) “For thirty years, I have been trying and failing to help move authentic civil rights history to film,” Branch tweeted last weekend. “It’s not the familiar, ‘sanitized’ MLK.” You can also read the collection of Op-Eds that The Times has published in recent days, by Wendi Thomas and others. We’ve linked to each of those pieces in Related Coverage below. If you have questions for Jesse Jackson, who wrote one of the pieces, leave them in the Comments section of his article; he will be replying to some of them in coming days. In other news, The Washington Post has a scoop: Robert Mueller has informed President Trump’s lawyers that the president is not currently a criminal target of his investigation. It’s a nice bit of reporting, but it doesn’t change the big picture. For one thing, the word “currently” is a pretty big caveat. For another, I remain skeptical that Mueller would bring criminal charges against a sitting president, given the number of legal experts who consider such a move problematic under any circumstances. The biggest threat to Trump remains an investigation that uncovers significant wrongdoing, weakening his support among voters and among the one body that has the unquestioned power to hold him accountable at any time: Congress.