Fifty years ago tonight, moments before he boarded a plane in Muncie, Ind., Robert Kennedy learned that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. had just been shot in Memphis. Something preternatural in Kennedy told him that Dr. King wouldn’t make it, but only on the other end of the short flight to Indianapolis, where he was scheduled to speak that evening, would he find out he’d been right. Kennedy aides on and off the plane debated what he should do. Most advised him to cancel his speech: It was not a night for politics, and it would be dangerous. The event was to be held at 17th and Broadway in the heart of the city’s worst neighborhood, a place where even the mayor of Indianapolis, Richard Lugar, had never set foot. Days before the King shooting, in fact, Mr. Lugar had urged Kennedy to move it. But Kennedy was adamant. “I’m going to go there, and that’s it,” he declared before disembarking. “My family and I could lay down in the street there, and they wouldn’t bother me,” he then told local police officials on the tarmac. “If they would bother you, you’re the one with the problem.” Even the normally stalwart Ethel Kennedy, pregnant with the couple’s 11th child, was too fearful to attend; she went directly to the hotel, praying along the way. Kennedy, meanwhile, headed for the rally, where a crowd awaited him, formulating a eulogy for Dr. King that proved more enduring than anything uttered at his funeral. It proved, in fact, to be Kennedy’s most memorable speech. Despite the sentimentalization that followed their adjoining deaths, Bobby Kennedy’s relationship with Martin Luther King had always been testy. Mindful of Kennedy’s early ties to Senator Joseph McCarthy, his attacks on organized labor, his cozy relationship with Southern racist politicians and his reputation for being his big brother’s hard-eyed consigliere, Dr. King had been horrified to learn he’d been named attorney general. He asked colleagues to find Kennedy’s “moral center,” without being at all sure one was there. Their association after that was disproportionate and, for Dr. King, who was invariably cast as the supplicant, slightly degrading. Behind his “ruthless” facade, Bobby Kennedy eventually turned out to be his big brother’s better angel on civil rights, more empathetic and curious and concerned. But his good will was well-camoflaged. Fearful of offending white, and especially Southern, voters, Bobby Kennedy kept his distance from Dr. King. Their few interactions were private — usually over the phone or in stilted correspondence. No photographs of just the two of them are known to exist. Things should have improved once John Kennedy died and Bobby Kennedy left the Justice Department. As a senator, Bobby Kennedy no longer lorded over Dr. King. He’d also inherited black America’s love of his martyred brother and had come increasingly to share Dr. King’s civil rights and urban agendas. But the chasm persisted. Dr. King still posed political perils to Kennedy among white voters, especially with his increasingly vocal opposition to the Vietnam War. There were also their ongoing cultural and stylistic differences, including, at least according to some associates, the puritanical Kennedy’s views on Dr. King’s more libertine lifestyle, which Kennedy knew of partly because of wiretaps  he’d authorized in 1963. (Other friends counter that John Kennedy’s brother could hardly have found such infidelity shocking.) Kennedy felt far more at home with black militants, like the organizers of that night’s rally in Indianapolis, than with more mainstream leaders like Dr. King — perhaps because many of those leaders were supporting Kennedy’s opponent in the primary. More than any love for Dr. King, then, it was the promise he’d made to black Indianapolis — his core constituency in the upcoming state primary — and probably the very danger of the mission that brought Kennedy to 17th and Broadway that night. But once there, he embraced Dr. King more passionately than he ever had in life. He arrived late, by which time things had grown darker, colder, rainier, angrier: many in the crowd, especially more recent arrivals, already knew Dr. King was gone. Some taunted whites there; others, gang members, were bent on violence. “They kill Martin Luther, and we was ready to move,” one later said. Draped in his brother’s old overcoat, Kennedy climbed the rickety steps leading to the back of a pickup truck that would serve that night as his podium. “This little bitty, small white man started talking, and you could see it was Robert Kennedy,” Darlene Howard, who lived in the neighborhood, later told the filmmaker Donald Boggs. “And I thought, ‘Oh, my God, they’re going to kill him.’ ” Nearby, one of Kennedy’s advance men, Jerry Bruno, eyed the crowd apprehensively, as well he might: He’d been on duty in Dallas when President Kennedy was killed. “I have some very sad news for all of you,” Kennedy began, before making his grim announcement. He then described how Dr. King had dedicated his life to love and to justice, and he pleaded for the love and understanding for which Dr. King had always stood. Then he said something startling. “For those of you who are black and are tempted to be filled with hatred and mistrust of the injustice of such an act against all white people, I would only say that I can also feel in my own heart the same kind of feeling,” he said. “I had a member of my own family killed, but he was killed by a white man.” Everyone knew that already, of course, but it was something Robert Kennedy had never mentioned publicly before, and it seemed to leach out any remaining venom in the crowd. “After he spoke we couldn’t get nowhere,” a gang member later told Karl Anatol and John Bittner of Purdue University. Kennedy then cited some lines from Aeschylus’ “Agamemnon.” Whether it was strangely tone deaf or the ultimate in respect to do so in such a setting really didn’t matter; words like “pain,” “heart,” “despair,” “awful,” “grace” and “God” resonated in black Indianapolis. “So I ask you tonight to return home, to say a prayer for the family of Martin Luther King, but more importantly to say a prayer for our own country, which all of us love,” he concluded. All told, he spoke that night for around six minutes. But unlike so many other American cities, Indianapolis didn’t burn that night or over the next few days, as did Washington, Chicago, Baltimore and scores of other American cities. Kennedy’s speech, like Dr. King’s just the night before — where he said, “We’ve got some difficult days ahead” and “But it really doesn’t matter with me now, because I’ve been to the mountaintop” — was overlooked at the time. There was a catastrophe to cover. But one place where it was duly noted was Room 306 of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis — just outside of which Dr. King had been shot and where his luggage still remained. That was where, only hours after leaving his corpse at the hospital, his disciples gathered to discuss what came next. They’d hoped to get on television themselves, to plead for the calm that Dr. King himself would have sought, but no one wanted them. But there, on the Philco Starlite television hanging from the wall, was Bobby Kennedy, doing exactly that. “He was in the middle of a totally black community, and he stood there without fear and with great confidence and empathy, and he literally poured his soul out talking about his brother,” Andrew Young later remembered. “The amazing thing to us was that the crowd listened. He reached them.” The assembled agreed that Dr. King’s torch had now passed to Kennedy; their only question was how long he would get to hold it. “I don’t know, I almost feel like somebody said, ‘He’s probably going to be next,’ ” Young recalled. “I can’t remember that. But that was the feeling that many of us had.”