It is tempting to think that a work of great art appears in the material world complete and perfectly formed, like a rainbow or an egg, that every note or phrase or scene or brush stroke has been placed just so and for good reason. It is tempting to think that geniuses know what they are doing. But geniuses being as human as the rest of us, this isn’t always so. Sometimes great art is more like a tossed-together scramble that makes good use of whatever happens to be in the fridge — a synthesis of craft and dumb luck. Not long ago, I got a lesson in fluke creativity when I had the opportunity to speak to Keir Dullea, the actor who co-starred in “2001: A Space Odyssey,” Stanley Kubrick’s notoriously opaque science fiction epic, which I have been obsessed with most of my life. The film debuted 50 years ago this spring, on a not very auspicious date: April 3, 1968, the day before the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated. And yet, despite horrible news and mixed-to-bad reviews, “2001” was a hit from the beginning (contrary to subsequent legend that the film looked to be a flop until pot-smoking kids turned on to the psychedelic finale). I saw it for the first time that fall. I was 10, with a film-going résumé limited at that point to Disney and maybe a couple of stray westerns. Like many viewers before and since, I had no idea what to make of “2001” narratively. But I knew that it had immersed me in a new and strange world and that it had also overwhelmed and even terrified me. The weird thing is, I went back to see it as often as I could — I guess I wanted to conquer it. In the five decades since, I’ve watched “2001” more times than any other movie, more times than even “Mulan” (my children had a thing for that one). Suffice it to say, the film has become a kind of totem for me, and somehow — perhaps unaccountably — I still like it. So what a treat for me when I had the opportunity to interview Mr. Dullea about his experiences making the film. He mentioned that Mr. Kubrick, contrary to his reputation as a control freak, was open to ideas and contributions from anyone on the set. This was surprising. I asked for an example. “The only thing I remember is a minor thing,” Mr. Dullea said. “It’s at the very end of the film, when there’s that strange room in which I find myself after the journey through time and space.” He was talking about the movie’s penultimate sequence, in which his character, the astronaut Dave Bowman, has been transported across the universe by an unseen alien intelligence and placed in a kind of zoo or holding cell designed to look like a fancy European hotel, presumably to make him feel as at home as one could feel under the circumstances. Through deft staging and edits, Mr. Kubrick shows the thirtysomething Bowman aging through the rest of his life span, preparatory to his rebirth as some kind of interstellar superman — in the form of a planet-size fetus who is returned to Earth in the film’s final shot like the ultimate doorstep foundling. At one point in the hotel sequence, Bowman, having ditched his spacesuit for a surprisingly stylish robe, looks to be in his 70s. Mr. Dullea continued: “I’m sitting at a table eating” — a fancy Earth-style meal, from the looks of it, complete with white wine — “and in the middle I reach for something, I can’t remember what, and I accidentally knock the glass off the table and it falls on the floor at my feet, and as I’m bending forward to pick it up I hear something, and what I hear is the labored breathing of the yet older version of me on the bed — which by the way required makeup that took 12 hours.” Wait, I thought, the broken wine glass! Or could it be a water glass? At any rate, it is one of the movie’s more famous riddles. The moment is so deliberate and messy and startling — the hotel sequence is for the most part hushed and austere — and yet so arbitrary. In other words, it reeks of symbolism. What was Mr. Kubrick’s point in punctuating his visionary film with something so quotidian? This is something many critics have chewed over — and me too. I have read that the broken glass was meant to echo the splintered animal bones that become weapons of war in the prehistoric “Dawn of Man” sequence that begins the movie, or that it symbolizes the fragility of existence, or the shattering of the “subject-object” rationality with which homo sapiens traditionally view the world. One essayist divines a reference to “the broken glass of the Judaic marriage ceremony,” a symbol of “the end of one way of life and the beginning of a new one.” But these kinds of interpretations have always struck me as overcooked; Mr. Kubrick was a filmmaker, not a cinema studies student looking for a Ph.D. thesis. On the other hand, I’d never come up with anything better on my own. And yet Mr. Kubrick’s films are so meticulously thought out, I assumed he must have had some intention here. Two summers ago, when I saw “2001” for the 43rd time, give or take a dozen (I dragged my teenage son to a 70 mm screening at the Museum of the Moving Image, in Queens; used to swifter space epics, he found it dull and impossibly slow; oh, well), I finally solved the broken glass. It just hit me: Mr. Kubrick’s point was to underscore Bowman’s humanity just as he’s on the precipice of transcending it. He knocks over a glass. He errs. Therefore, he’s human. Of course! HAL, the film’s homicidal, vainglorious computer, has a lot to say about human error earlier in the picture, so this seemed a nicely tied bow. I can’t say my interpretation was original — the essayist quoted above also takes it out for a spin — but in the moment it was new to me (perhaps fatherhood, and my son’s good-humored indulgence of being dragged to a “boring” movie, had got me thinking about human fallibility) and I bought it. Back to Mr. Dullea’s anecdote: “Originally, Stanley’s concept for the scene was that I’d just be eating and hear something and get up. But I said, ‘Stanley, let me find some slightly different way that’s kind of an action where I’m reaching — let me knock the glass off, and then in mid-gesture, when I’m bending over to pick it up, let me hear the breathing from that bent-over position. That’s all. And he says, ‘Oh, fine. That sounds good.’ “I just wanted to find a different way to play the scene than blankly hearing something,” Mr. Dullea concluded. “I just thought it was more interesting.” Ergo, the broken wine glass had no meaning whatsoever; it was just a prop for a bit of actor’s business. I laughed and told Mr. Dullea pretty much what I’ve just told you. He laughed in turn, but then said it was quite possible Mr. Kubrick had seen more in the action than he had: “Well, you know, it could have been that inadvertently I came up with this idea, but maybe Stanley thought, Hey, what a good idea! He could have possibly been thinking along the lines of what you just described.” But if not, he added, if a broken glass is just a broken glass, “I’d say that’s probably the only effect in that film that one might describe as mundane, because everything else is an example of this man’s brilliance.” Maybe. In his review of “2001,” the critic John Simon famously dismissed it as “a shaggy God story.” I don’t agree, but part of me now knows what Mr. Simon meant.