In Graham Greene’s short story “The Destructors,” a gang of arrogant boys demolishes the home of a stranger. They break into the man’s dwelling and, in an act of arbitrary aggression, dismantle it piece by piece. They rip up the floorboards and saw the support beams. They smash the glass and shred the wiring. They strip it to its plumbing and finally pull down its walls. “My house,” their victim sobs when he discovers the wreckage. “Where’s my house?” This is a tale for our times. There are destroyers everywhere, from the White House on down. But there is one particular demolition crew that needs your urgent attention, because its work stands apart for both sheer ambition and lasting harm. The demolition crew is called the House Committee on Natural Resources. Led by the powerful Representative Rob Bishop of Utah, a Republican, it is intent on erasing the great edifice that we call American conservation. For more than a century, the people of the United States have been at work building this country’s conservation system. Like a family of visionary architects laboring over many generations, citizens here have erected a system of ideas and policies meant to ensure our society’s future by protecting it from ecological devastation. This system is built atop a few foundational laws: the Antiquities Act of 1906, the Wilderness Act of 1964, the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and the Endangered Species Act of 1973, among others. Destroy this architecture of environmental sanity, and you destroy our conservation heritage. The destruction is already well underway. Even as I write, Mr. Bishop and the other members of the House Committee on Natural Resources are waging a relentless assault on each and every one of these essential laws. If they succeed, our priceless public lands, water and wildlife will suffer irreversible damage. Consider, for instance, the National Monument Creation and Protection Act, which Mr. Bishop shepherded through his committee in October. Despite its name, the bill would fundamentally gut one of our oldest conservation laws. It would amend the Antiquities Act of 1906 by severely restricting the president’s ability to independently designate national monuments on public land to protect natural, historic and cultural treasures. His legislation would also empower future presidents to reduce such monuments in size, effectively enshrining in law the Trump administration’s ongoing and legally dubious attack on national monuments across the country, especially in Mr. Bishop’s home state. Then there’s the Resilient Federal Forests Act, introduced in Congress by Representative Bruce Westerman, Republican of Arkansas. Among other provisions, the bill would excavate gaping loopholes in the National Environmental Policy Act’s crucial environmental review process and give timber companies greater latitude to exploit our national forests. It would also make it more difficult for everyday Americans to use the courts to seek oversight of timber-harvesting activities on federal land. Mr. Westerman, it’s worth noting, has received more than $200,000 in campaign contributions from timber interests over his career. The House passed the bill in November. In December, the committee approved a bill that would amend the Wilderness Act for the first time since its passage in 1964. The proposal would open up federal wilderness areas to mountain bikes and other forms of mechanized travel that are now prohibited under the law. Wilderness advocates are aghast, fearing that the bill is meant to undermine the gold standard for land protection in this country by creating a precedent that would encourage additional efforts to undermine wilderness protections. The country’s leading mountain bike organization, the International Mountain Bicycling Association, has said it is not supporting the bill, either. Finally, there is the Endangered Species Act, a law that has saved fish, other animals and plants from extinction. Mr. Bishop has said that he “would love to invalidate” the act, and he’s well on his way. His committee recently passed a package of proposals that would bleed the law by a thousand cuts. Among other things, the bills remove Midwestern gray wolves from the endangered species list, require the federal government to consider the economic impact of protecting species under the law and make it more burdensome for citizens who sue in federal court to enforce the law’s provisions. There is only one major difference between the fictional destructors of Greene’s story and the anti-conservation politicians at work on Capitol Hill. In the story, the motivations of the characters are somewhat opaque. The boys are driven to destroy their neighbor’s home out of a vague mix of hubris, ambition, boredom and rage. The same cannot be said of the House Natural Resources Committee. Its influences are as clear as a clean stream. Collectively, the Republican members of the committee have taken more than $6 million in campaign contributions from the oil and gas industry over the course of their careers. Mr. Bishop alone has taken $400,000. Its members are also awash in money from the mining, timber and agriculture industries. Many have ties, too, to the political network of the billionaire brothers Charles and David Koch, among other interests ardently opposed to environmental regulation. Like the arrogant vandals in Greene’s story, but with pockets full of special interest campaign cash, the destructors of today want to tear down the walls of American conservation. Soon enough we too will be asking: What happened to our land, our country, our home?