Stephon Clark, 22, was unarmed when the Sacramento police came upon him in his grandmother’s backyard, shot him eight times — mostly in the back — and killed him. The two officers were responding to a report of car break-ins. The tragedy became California’s latest addition to the long list of high-profile law enforcement shootings of unarmed black people, but to me, a native of the state, Mr. Clark’s death on March 18 was also a reminder of one of California’s best-kept and most shameful secrets: In a manner that belies its liberal reputation, day-to-day life for generations of black residents there has long been shaped by discrimination and inequality. Blacks account for only about 6.5 percent of California’s nearly 40 million residents, yet they are among the most heavily policed populations in the state. In 2016, police in California shot at or used force against black people at triple the rate of their portion of the population, according to a 2017 report on use of force by the state Department of Justice. Blacks in California are more likely than any other state population demographic to be subjected to traffic stops, according to a 2017 study by Stanford’s Open Policing Project. The way Mr. Clark died is part of a historic pattern of black Californians experiencing uniquely harsh and sometimes lethal outcomes in the realm of criminal justice and public safety. Mr. Clark’s death was the second such instance of the local police shooting and killing a black man in Sacramento in the past couple of years; statewide, there have been similar high-profile episodes, notably the caught-on-cellphone-camera shooting death of Mario Woods by San Francisco Police Department officers in December 2015. These encounters had a precursor in the beating of Rodney King that was caught on tape in greater Los Angeles 27 years ago, three years before I left the state. In April 1992, following the acquittal of the white police officers who were charged with beating Mr. King after he’d led them on a high-speed chase, thousands of citizens took to the streets of Los Angeles in protests that morphed into a weeklong riot. I covered that upheaval as a journalist, and in the aftermath Los Angeles residents, city officials and representatives from business engaged in soul-searching about the undercurrent of disaffection among black residents that had fueled the civic unrest. Residents in South Central, Compton and other predominantly black and Latino Los Angeles neighborhoods spoke at town hall meetings and forums, saying they’d continually experienced not only police abuse, but also unfair hiring practices in the city’s retail centers and film industry, as well as job losses from closures in manufacturing. Now, nearly three decades later, the state still enjoys a liberal reputation that is partly deserved, but it is also often at odds with the material status of black residents — not only when it comes to headline-grabbing tragedy and injustice, but also in all facets of life. Equal access to California’s economic drivers has long been elusive for black residents. Currently 10 percent of Sacramento County’s 1.5 million residents are African-Americans, and the median household income for blacks there is $44,188, versus $70,076 for whites, according to the county government’s 2018 summary census data. Homeownership among Sacramento’s black population declined from 43 percent in 2006 to 27 percent in 2015, with blacks experiencing larger losses during the subprime mortgage-related economic downturn of 2008 and seeing a longer recovery period than whites, The Sacramento Bee found. While the divides in median income and homeownership mirror similar disparities in other American cities, particularly as they apply to black males, the gaps between blacks and whites in Sacramento County exist in stark contrast to California’s image as a liberal nirvana in which ethnic populations have equal access to the ladder of upward economic mobility. Employment numbers are another key metric of a population’s overall health, and black Californians consistently lag behind whites and, increasingly, behind Hispanics, as well: In the third quarter of 2017, black unemployment in California was 7.9 percent, outpacing the rate for Hispanics (5.6 percent), whites (4.4 percent) and Asian residents (3.9 percent), according to the Economic Policy Institute. Notwithstanding policing and economic discrimination, California emits a golden halo in the progressive American imagination, one that obscures the material conditions of blacks in the state. I think it is fair to ask if this partly allows elected officials to avoid grappling directly with blacks’ disparate treatment. Case in point: Following Mr. Clark’s death, Darrell Steinberg, Sacramento’s mayor and a former Democratic member of the State Assembly, said he believes that implicit bias on the part of the two officers who shot and killed Mr. Clark may have been a factor. But the problems that lead to an unarmed black man being gunned down and the many other issues facing black people in my home state run much deeper than one officer’s subconscious attitudes toward race. And there is a long overdue need for deep, sustained measures, such as changes to training protocols for law enforcement agencies (now under discussion in Sacramento) and increased funding for culturally competent social services programs that specifically address the health and welfare of black residents. In reflecting on life for California’s black residents in the days after Mr. Clark’s brutal death, I’ve thought about police violence but also about how the past decade has seen the stalling of economic mobility for black residents in Sacramento and in my home region, the San Francisco Bay Area, and job creation increasingly centers on advanced technology industries that have overlooked black applicants. Activists have demanded accountability for Mr. Clark’s death. We need that, and much more: We need policies that ensure a person’s racial identity doesn’t determine their ability to survive a police encounter, secure a mortgage or enjoy a decent quality of life according to other key indicators. We need a state that not only signals its commitment to egalitarian principles, but also does the hard, uncomfortable work of erasing the impact of longstanding racism from systems that affect all residents.