Is our Trumpy world bringing you down? What about an escape to Vermont? Folks in the town of Ripton are looking for someone to buy the general store, up for sale because its owners are retiring. Facebook, at its core, is a surveillance machine, and to expect that to change is misplaced optimism, writes Tim Wu, a law professor and contributing opinion writer. What we most need now is a new generation of social media platforms. A computer scientist and Donald Trump agree: Paper is the safest and simplest solution to prevent a hacked election. “While danger was all around, we never thought the Martin Luther King we knew and loved, admitted to Morehouse College at 15, graduated and ordained at 19, earning a Ph.D. at 26, awarded the Nobel Peace Prize at 35, would be dead at 39.” On the 50th anniversary of his assassination, Mr. Jackson, his former aide, remembers the radical life Dr. King lived. We’re familiar with grim stories about federal agents barging into apartment complexes, stores and school pickup sites to round up and deport immigrants. We’ve heard far less about the forced labor inside detention facilities. Shulem Deen left the Hasidic Jewish community a decade ago. He tells an eye-opening personal account about the severe gaps in the education of young boys in yeshivas. His own sons, aged 16 and 18, cannot speak, read or write in English past a second-grade level. Hungary’s right-wing prime minister, Viktor Orban, is up for re-election on Sunday. Under his leadership, rights essential for democracy itself — including free speech, free assembly and free association — have been systematically attacked. Scholar Jan-Werner Müller explains what is happening and why he is a threat.  From the Editorial Board: President Trump recently tried to undermine The Washington Post, part of his ongoing assault on the press and the truth. His actions are having an impact around the world, and Republicans and Democrats alike should stand up and speak out. Being “Asperger-y” is an archetype in popular culture, a term we apply to loved ones and an identity many people with autism adopt for themselves. Most of us never think about the man behind the name. But we should, says a scholar from Berkeley.  No amount of mental gymnastics can make what Roseanne Barr has said and done in recent years palatable, writes Roxane Gay. Stanley Kubrick and Arthur C. Clarke’s film “2001: A Space Odyssey,” turned 50 this week, and still retains its relevance. Consider it a cautionary tale, as the role of technology in our democracy comes under intense scrutiny. Technology may be making heads spin, but flowers are blooming. Hope you find the time to enjoy a spring weekend.