In what is becoming one of the most remarkable chapters in American legal history, the president of the United States is in serious need of top-notch legal help, but apparently cannot find top-notch lawyers to represent him. As Robert Mueller’s Russia probe moves forward, the Trump administration has approached a slew of prominent law firms and attorneys, only to be told that while, in the words of Dan Webb and Tom Buchanan of Winston & Strawn, “the opportunity to represent the president [is] the highest honor” that can come a lawyer’s way, they must respectfully decline that honor. This left the president relying on a legal team who, with the exception of former Hogan Lovells lawyer Ty Cobb, features no criminal defense lawyers, let alone attorneys with experience in the sort of investigation Mr. Mueller is conducting. The reasons top firms and lawyers are giving for refusing to work for Trump include conflicts of interests with current clients, the possibility of alienating sources of future business, the president’s reluctance to follow legal advice, his tendency to ask lawyers to engage in what Ted Boutrous of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher referred to delicately as “questionable activities,” and his history of not paying his bills. Although these reasons for not taking on the president as a client are plausible, it seems something more profound is at work. After all, given the nature of white-collar criminal defense work, all these firms have extensive experience dealing with complicated conflicts issues, as well as difficult, controversial and otherwise unsavory clients. (By contrast, Bill Clinton secured the services of Bob Bennett, arguably the nation’s top white-collar criminal defense attorney, to defend him in the context of Ken Starr’s independent counsel investigation.) Is there something else about Mr. Trump that makes elite lawyers especially reluctant to represent him? It is true that he presented himself as an anti-establishment populist and that more highly educated voters in general were less likely to vote for him. Yet campaign contributions to presidential candidates from lawyers at America’s top law firms suggest strongly that the antipathy toward Trump among elite lawyers is especially intense. I examined federal records of presidential campaign contributions in 2012 and 2016 at the nation’s 10 highest-ranked law firms and other elite institutions known for their political and economic influence, such as Goldman Sachs. The results were striking. In 2012, employees at these companies made 3,552 contributions to presidential campaigns. Barack Obama received 58.6 percent of these contributions while 40.6 percent went to Mitt Romney (the remainder going to other candidates in the Republican primary). Mr. Romney’s percentage of contributions was very similar to the percentage of the vote — 42 percent — he received in the election from voters with any postgraduate education. The same data for the 2016 election provide a stark contrast. Of the 4,812 contributions originating from these companies, Mr. Trump received a total of 40. Meanwhile, contributions to Hillary Clinton outnumbered those to Mr. Trump by a ratio of more than 100 to 1. Mrs. Clinton received nearly twice as many contributions from lawyers in these companies than Mr. Obama received four years earlier. (The latter fact is all the more striking, given that Mrs. Clinton raised 22 percent less money from the electorate as a whole than Mr. Obama raised in 2012.) Meanwhile, compared with the support they gave to Mr. Romney, contributions from lawyers at these elite firms to Mr. Trump declined by a remarkable 98 percent. (Overall, Mr. Trump raised 26 percent less money than Mr. Romney raised in 2012.) Some of the reluctance to contribute to the Trump campaign may be explained by the belief that he was unlikely to win. Yet the shift in support among elite lawyers between the Democratic and Republican nominees in 2012 and 2016 is extraordinary. Data from Kirkland & Ellis, a Top 10 firm with a reputation for leaning Republican, highlight how extreme that shift was. In 2012, Kirkland & Ellis’s lawyers made 20.6 percent more contributions to Mr. Romney’s campaign than they made to Mr. Obama’s. In 2016, the same firm’s lawyers were 34 times more likely to contribute to Mrs. Clinton’s campaign than to Mr. Trump’s. The notable lack of support for Mr. Trump inside top law firms reflects a broader pattern among elite institutions. For example, at the investment bank Goldman Sachs, contributions to the Trump campaign were 99 percent lower than those to Mr. Romney’s campaign four years earlier. Indeed, the total number of Goldman Sachs executives who to date have taken senior positions in the Trump administration (five) is greater than the total number of the firm’s approximately 34,000 employees who contributed to Trump’s campaign (three). The revealed preferences, in the form of 2016 campaign contributions, of these elite professionals suggest that Mr. Trump’s inability to hire top lawyers to help him with his mounting legal troubles is not merely because he has various hallmarks of a troublesome client. Rather, they suggest the depth of the misgivings Mr. Trump has raised among American elites, and which persist today. Of course, those misgivings do not appear to extend to one particularly crucial elite: the leadership of the Republican Party. Whether that changes because of the outcome of the Mueller investigation, and in particular because of whatever role the refusal of so many elite lawyers to represent the president plays in that outcome, remains to be seen.