In an Op-Ed article this week, the Rev. Jesse Jackson wrote about the need to remember the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as a radical, ecumenical, antiwar, pro-immigrant and scholarly champion of the poor. Readers shared their own reminiscences about Dr. King and their thoughts on the changes in the country since his assassination 50 years ago. Here are some of their comments and Mr. Jackson’s responses. — The Editors Thank you for sharing your witness to these powerful events. Before the recent Alabama election, the secretary of state attempted to move tens of thousands of voters onto inactive rolls. Fortunately, lawsuits brought by the N.A.A.C.P. and tireless efforts of black women to get out the vote denied the state’s Republicans another stolen election. In the 21st century, the need for vigilance is as keen as ever and there is still much work to do. — Ann, California Jesse Jackson: With the changing demographics in the country there is a concerted effort by Republicans to make it harder for people of color, women, workers, students, young people, seniors and the disabled to vote. This is mostly a result of our states-rights and local-control voting systems. It will probably surprise you, but the explicit individual right to vote is not in the U.S. Constitution. The Supreme Court’s Heller ruling in 2008 gave individuals the right to own a gun, but we still don’t have a right to vote. That’s why I’m fighting to add a right-to-vote amendment to the Constitution. Congress would then be obligated to pass voting laws with minimum common-sense national standards. King was not a statue. He was a man of flesh and blood. A man who had fears and hopes. A man who had failures and successes. A man whose wife and kids sacrificed their family time for his struggle for racial justice. To make more of him is to diminish his achievement and give us an excuse for not doing a thing because we have no leader of his stature. Dr. King did not act alone. While Reverend Jackson is among his more famous followers, I remember and revere E. D. Nixon, Bayard Rustin and Fred Gray, Roy Wilkins, Clarence Mitchell Jr. and Thurgood Marshall . It is 2018. Not 1968. King’s time has past. We need new methods and messengers for these times. The black church is not the only thing that blacks control and own. — Blackmamba, Illinois Mr. Jackson: I have no quarrel with the argument that Dr. King, like all of us, was fully human. I do have a difference with the idea that the black church today is irrelevant. Most African-Americans didn’t go to church during Dr. King’s time and that remains true today. While some progressive churches were involved in the civil rights movement, most were not. The changes that Dr. King brought about — public accommodations, voting rights and a greater degree of open housing for some — have resulted in a more diversified leadership. There are some clergy who are still in the forefront of social justice leadership. The Rev. Al Sharpton immediately comes to mind. He has been at the front lines of the social justice movement since I first met him when he was 12. Others include Michael Eric Dyson, Cornel West, Obery M. Hendricks Jr., the Rev. Otis Moss III and others. But the longstanding N.A.A.C.P., National Urban League, Leadership Conference on Civil Rights and the Congressional Black Caucus have been joined by Black Lives Matter, Advancement Project, Transformative Justice and many other civil, social, voting rights, civil rights and thousands of local organizations that use the new tools of social media to fight for racial justice. I was 8 when Dr. King was murdered. Dad had been working with CORE in Seattle since before there was a Civil Rights Act to integrate supermarkets that wouldn’t hire blacks. Sadly, Reverend Jackson is right in suggesting that, perhaps more overtly and forcefully than at any time in our history, the president of the United States himself is working to dismantle the bold strides that Dr. King made. He must not succeed. — J Young Mr. Jackson: Yes, the Trump administration has demonstrated in word and deed that it is an advocate for authoritarianism, not democracy, and white supremacy, not multiculturalism. He must be defeated. We have many more tools today to fight such extremism, and we must utilize all of them — political education, boycotts campaigns, marching feet and protest rallies, legislation when we can get it, legal strategies and, above all, the vote and to run for office. The key to changing national politics is the South, and the key to winning the South is the black vote. There are still around four million unregistered black voters in the South and 2.2 million who are registered but didn’t vote in 2016. There are also four million high school seniors. These are low hanging grapes. I believe God-plus-one is a majority, so it must begin with you, and I don’t know of a better role model or signpost to give you direction when struggling for social justice than to continue in the “spirit” and move toward the “beloved community” that Dr. King envisioned. The students in Tiananmen Square were in his spirit when they were resisting authoritarian rule and being inspired by the civil rights movement’s song that he helped to internationalize — “We Shall Overcome.” Dr. King’s spirit was manifest by the students at Florida’s Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School after 17 of their peers and school staff members were murdered. They organized hundreds of thousands of nonviolent supporters in Washington, D.C., and in cities around the world to say no to violence. The Trump administration is not serving in the spirit of Dr. King and is dividing rather than building the beloved community.