On the morning after Thanksgiving, I woke up to a text from my boyfriend. He was spending the holiday with his family in New Jersey while I was with mine in Massachusetts. It was a picture of a parakeet in a blue wire cage, the recognizable brick wall of our living room in the background. “Meet our new daughter” was all he wrote. When we first got together and were getting to know each other, I asked him about the pets he’d had growing up. “Cats, I guess. But I also had a bird,” he said. And then he paused. “I loved her so much, I nearly squeezed her to death. I was just a kid. I didn’t know the strength of my own hands.” At the time, I found this admission charming. When he mentioned his intention of buying a bird for himself a few months later, I did not take it seriously. I assumed he said it in the same spirit that I say to him, every few weeks, “I’m going to start walking around the block after dinner instead of watching TV.” But here was the bird on the screen of my phone, and then a series of half apologies and justifications. I showed them to my family. My brother-in-law, who has been with my sister for 20 years, said, in his understated way, “That’s a very bold move for a man to take.” “You can name her,” my boyfriend said. “I want you to name her.” I knew this was manipulation — something I used to view as a cardinal sin. But I have learned, to my surprise, that close relationships rely on at least a small amount of mutual manipulation to sustain them. So I texted back. “Her name is Nina, like Nina Simone.” And then, after a beat, another message from me: “She’s yours, though. I’m not taking care of her.” When I was growing up, we had pets all the time. Hamsters, cats, dogs. When I was 10, we moved into our first apartment after my parents’ divorce. My mom told us we could get a cat, and so we did — Otis. He would play with me for hours, watching a dancing ribbon. That summer, as we watched the Democratic National Convention, he consented to wear a boater and tie, and we made him a little “Clinton ’92” placard. All four of us — my sisters, my mother and myself — fell deeply in love with Otis. So it was very traumatic when my mother sat us down early one morning, just before we were supposed to leave for a long-planned vacation. We had been saving up money for months for this vacation. Instead, my mother said gravely, “I have some bad news.” Otis had died. He had the habit of chasing laundry into the dryer, and that particular night, my mother hadn’t noticed his last frolic with a load of towels. After a beat she said, “We should probably get going on that trip.” My mother was not heartless. But she was also completely exhausted, and defeated by a life that seemed to continually snatch the one good thing she was able to do for her daughters out of her hands. We went on that vacation, weeping, and when we returned she told us we could get another cat — this time a kitten, from the shelter, who ended up so sickly we had to wash him by hand with dish soap. He passed, too, and so did the next cat. Then my mother took in three kittens from a relative whose cat had just given birth. I deigned to name one of them Ophelia, mostly because I was a dramatic snob at that point and it seemed fitting to name this cat after a famous lost girl of literature. Ophelia, however, was a boy, with an undescended testicle, who responded to this misfortune in life by spraying all of my clothing with his scent. That year I was a freshman in a new school, the only black girl in my class, and stank of cat urine because we were too poor to buy a new coat, and once that smell gets into one piece of clothing, it is difficult to remove. As you can imagine, it was a very lonely year. After that, I gave up on animals. Caring for an animal is such a strange act. It requires devotion and sacrifice for a being that will never call your name, whose thoughts you can never be sure of. We convince ourselves that we know the desires of our pets, but isn’t part of the allure of animals that they are not fellow human beings, that what they are asking of us is something completely different from what a family member or a friend or a lover asks? Nina is a good bird, I will admit. She won me over a few weeks after she joined our household. My boyfriend works at a school and leaves at 5 a.m. Most mornings, it is just Nina and me, usually doing the dishes from the night before. To distract myself, I play podcasts. I can unequivocally say Nina is a RuPaul fan. Whenever she hears his voice, she trills and tries to engage him in conversation. I began to do what humans who keep pets always do — I imagined she found his voice fascinating for the same reason I found his voice fascinating. “Nina is a queen!” I excitedly texted Charlie on his lunch break. “But she’s lonely,” he countered when he came home. This despite the fact that when I pull up YouTube on our computer, its algorithm now defaults to a string of videos with titles like “6 plus hours of budgie calls” and “How to get your parakeet to love you.” “I can’t give her the attention she needs,” he said sadly. The next time I left town, another message: “Don’t freak out.” The new bird’s name is Baldwin. My boyfriend gave him that name, to ensure they’d get along. As I write this, Nina and Baldwin are sharing a perch, flapping their wings at each other in a dance I only half understand.