EVANSTON, Ill. — At jury selection last week in the retrial of Bill Cosby for sexual assault, the #MeToo movement was clearly of concern to the judge as a source of potential bias. Nearly every one of the would-be jurors had heard about the campaign. But that doesn’t mean #MeToo should be a problem in the trial, the first against a prominent figure since the movement took hold last year. In fact, the opposite is true. #MeToo can best be understood as a needed corrective to a longstanding reality: Women who report sexual violations by people they know, including mentors, co-workers, bosses, classmates, acquaintances, friends and intimates, are often not believed. As I described in a recently published paper, this skepticism was once baked into the law itself. Rape law historically embodied overt suspicion of accusers. To convict a defendant of any crime, the jury must be convinced of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. But to make the crime of sexual assault even more difficult to prove, a set of rules once required corroborating evidence of the victim’s account, the victim’s “prompt” disclosure of the incident and jury instructions warning about the danger of wrongly convicting a defendant. Most jurisdictions abolished these formal rules in the 1970s. Even so, skepticism of the accuser remains an informal barrier to justice today. Victims of sexual assault — a population overwhelmingly, though not exclusively, comprising women — confront a system that is generally unresponsive to their claims. The sexual assault enforcement gap is particularly wide in cases involving women of color, immigrants, L.G.B.T. individuals, women in poverty and sex workers. Across the board, sexual assault allegations generally are treated with incredulity at every stage of the criminal process, resulting in an extraordinary rate of case attrition. Most accusations are dropped well before ever reaching a jury. Many survivors forgo the criminal justice system altogether for fear of how their cases might be mistreated. Apart from the personal and professional risks involved in reporting an assault, would-be accusers rightly fear that their allegations will be met with unwarranted skepticism — a pervasive problem I call “credibility discounting.” Not every sexual assault allegation is true, of course. But what is troubling is the large gap between commonplace perceptions of falsity and actual falsity. This is a particular worry in the criminal justice setting, where law enforcement officers often disregard reports of sexual violence before they are fully investigated, having assumed at the outset that the complainant is probably lying. In one 2008 study, more than half of the police detectives interviewed said they believed that 40 percent to 80 percent of sexual assault complaints are false. This default to doubt the accuser is unjustifiable. The quality of research on false rape allegations varies widely, but studies that have independently evaluated whether an allegation was false found false report rates ranging from 2 percent to 8 percent. Among them, a study on policing and prosecuting sexual assault in Los Angeles concluded that 4.5 percent of all sexual assaults made to the Los Angeles Police Department in 2008 were false. Another study that analyzed sexual assault allegations reported to one university in the Northeast over 10 years found that 5.9 percent were false. Moreover, research suggests that the types of reports most likely to be considered false — namely, those involving people who know each other or were intoxicated — are the least likely to be false. Of late, to overcome this discounting, sexual assault survivors have joined forces, telling their stories in numbers that greatly enhance the likelihood they will be believed in the court of public opinion. Outside of the courtroom, Bill Cosby, whose retrial began last Monday in suburban Philadelphia, has about 60 accusers. Harvey Weinstein, who has not yet been charged with a crime, has over 80. Larry Nassar, the doctor for U.S.A. Gymnastics who pleaded guilty before trial, has twice that number of accusers. To be sure, numbers like those don’t necessarily translate into success in the courtroom. But we may be on the cusp of a cultural shift in our orientation to sexual assault and its survivors. Jurors do not come to a case against Mr. Cosby, or any other defendant, as blank slates. Instead, provided they have not prejudged the facts, jurors evaluate the evidence admitted at trial fairly, applying common sense and their general understandings of how the world operates. In the past, this important work was routinely infected by misconceptions about sexual assault, resulting in the vast underestimation of survivors’ credibility. #MeToo is only beginning to remedy that profound distortion.