This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. The country is about to spend a lot of time talking about James Comey again. Comey’s much-anticipated book will publish next week, and he will begin a publicity tour befitting a former president this coming weekend. My column this morning looks at Comey’s full, complicated legacy. I argue that he’s never deserved the harshest criticism he has received — as a partisan hack, out to get Donald Trump, Hillary Clinton or anyone else. I instead think of Comey as akin to a figure in a Greek tragedy, one whose greatest strength turned into his biggest weakness. Either way, he may well go down as the most significant supporting player of the Trump era. Syria.  Syrian forces hit a suburb of Damascus on Saturday with bombs that reportedly unleashed toxic gas. In April 2017 Kassem Eid described his experience of surviving a Sarin attack near Damascus. Harold Levy. If you didn’t yet read the Sunday Review piece by Harold Levy, with help from Peg Tyre, I hope you’ll do so. I’ve known Levy for years as a passionate, thoughtful advocate for economic opportunity. He is now dying of A.L.S., far too young, which has added obvious urgency to his thoughts. The foundation he runs — the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation — has been a particularly strong voice on behalf of community-college students. You can read about some of them here. Levy has always glowed when he’s talked to me about the students that he’s worked with. Related: The Times ran a collection of letters yesterday about closing the college-graduation gap between rich and poor. L’Affaire Williamson, continued. Hundreds of you wrote to us with thoughts about which opinions you do and don’t want to read in the national media. Thank you for taking the time to do so. I’ll devote at least one newsletter to your answers this week. In the meantime, the debate over The Atlantic’s firing of Kevin Williamson — the writer who has called for the execution of women who get abortions — continues: In USA Today, Kirsten Powers argues that the issue isn’t about excluding conservative voices (even though a lack of ideological diversity in media is a real problem). She writes: “He was fired for being unable to have a reasoned, civil debate about abortion that doesn’t involve fantasizing not just about the government killing women who get abortions, but about how they kill them.” Slate’s Ruth Graham writes that Williamson’s views actually do a favor to abortion-rights advocates. “It would have been clarifying to see a pro-life writer follow his movement’s rhetoric to its logical endpoint: If abortion is murder, tens of millions of American women are murderers,” she writes. In his Sunday column, Ross Douthat agrees with the first of those two Graham arguments: that Williamson may hurt the pro-life cause. But Ross adds that liberals are too quick to excuse pro-abortion extremism, which is willing to kill human beings “for reasons of eugenics or convenience or any reason at all.” And Paul Krugman says that the issue comes from a structural problem on the political right: “The left has genuine public intellectuals with actual ideas and at least some real influence; the right does not.”