We won the stop-and-frisk case in 2013, when a federal court ruled the New York City Police Department’s use of the practice was unconstitutional. But as the lawyers in the case, our work isn’t done. Ultimate victory depends on whether we reform the police practices that drove unlawful stops and arrests. In the court-ordered reform process, improvements to police discipline and supervision are on the chopping block. Without these changes, we fear unlawful stops will explode again. This isn’t theoretical. Though the number of stops has declined, department audits reveal that officers fail to record them up to 73 percent of the time. Among the stops that do get recorded, racial disparities persist at rates similar to when stop-and-frisk was at its peak. Over 80 percent of people stopped are black or Latino. And controlling for crime rates, the police patrol much more aggressively in black and Latino neighborhoods compared to white ones. The police department has received 1,536 complaints of racial profiling since it began tracking in 2015. But it hasn’t substantiated a single profiling allegation in the more than 700 investigations it has closed. None of those hundreds of profiling complaints had merit? And the department continues to impose slap-on-the-wrist discipline for misconduct — a practice that we proved significantly contributed to discriminatory stops. In our case, the department agreed to participate in a two-part process for reforming stop-and-frisk, as well as trespass stops, which often led to baseless arrests of people of color living in public housing. One set of changes is being developed based on negotiations among the parties’ lawyers and a monitor appointed by the court. Additional reforms are supposed to be developed based on community input. It’s not surprising to us that the lawyer-designed reforms have not solved the problems, because we always expected the real solutions to come from the community-input process. The problem is the police department suggested that it might oppose reforms that black and Latino New Yorkers are asking for. As much as the department wants to be seen as listening to community members, it doesn’t actually want to be responsive to their needs. That’s a shame because “the communities most affected by the N.Y.P.D.’s use of stop-and-frisk have a distinct perspective that is highly relevant to crafting effective reforms,” as Judge Shira A. Scheindlin wrote in her opinion overhauling the department’s use of stop-and-frisk. “No amount of legal or policing expertise can replace a community’s understanding of the likely practical consequences of reforms in terms of both liberty and safety,” she wrote. Without community input, “the reforms are unlikely to be successful.” Imagine a black man who lived in the Bronx around 2011, the height of the stop-and-frisk era. New York police officers threw him up against walls; they turned his pockets inside out. Some days they accused him of trespassing in his own apartment building. Every time, the police let him go without a summons and without arresting him — because he was doing nothing wrong. He was only walking to the corner store or home. Now he’s a father. And while the police department says that stops have dropped, his son is also getting stopped, tossed and humiliated,even if less often. But the words of lawyers or federal court appointees cannot serve as a substitute for that black father’s voice and experiences. He knows better than we do what lasting change looks like. Thousands of people like this man — people who were repeatedly stopped, or whose children or friends were repeatedly stopped — gave their input into the design of reforms through 64 focus groups and 24 community forums across the city. At the very least, the New York Police Department must adopt these three reforms to fix the problems that took it to court in the first place. First, the department must establish progressive and serious penalties for unconstitutional behavior by officers. One unlawful stop might lead to retraining, for example, while two could mean a loss of vacation days. The police commissioner could diverge from the guidelines whenever he deemed it appropriate. But establishing minimum discipline standards that set strict penalties would encourage lawful behavior while communicating that the department is committed to addressing misconduct. Second, the police must use department-issued smartphones to instantly collect information about investigative activities, and to briefly explain these activities in their notes. We heard many community members describe stops that we know police officers did not report. This reform would ensure that more encounters do get reported, which would give the department a better view of whether officers understand the limits on their authority. Third, the department must create a citywide community oversight board consisting of those who have been most invested in advancing stop-and-frisk reforms. The board would monitor the department’s fulfillment of changes and provide assistance. For example, it would help to identify penalties to use in the discipline standards. Such sustained and structured community oversight promises more complete and abiding reform. And it’s not unprecedented: Just last month, Chicago agreed to a similar measure. The New York Police Department says it wants to improve community relations and build trust. But it’s easier to go on a listening tour than to give the community power over policies. And it’s easier to talk about accountability than to earn trust through action. We can’t let the department choose the easy way out. On April 30, a court appointee is to issue a report on the community-input process. Without discipline standards, improved documentation of police activity and a community oversight board, we believe the routine violation of the rights of people of color during police encounters in New York City will go on. And if these reforms do not happen through the community-input process, then they will not happen.