I wasn’t going to watch the “Roseanne” reboot for the same reason Samuel L. Jackson’s character in “Pulp Fiction”  says he’ll never learn whether sewer rat tastes like pumpkin pie. But when I read that people on both the right and the left were incensed about the gender-nonconforming grandchild of the title character, I decided to take a cautious peek back into Lanford, Ill., where the beloved sitcom characters of the 1990s have been resurrected, in Donald Trump’s America, a little worse for wear but still devoted to one another. My colleague Roxane Gay suggested that, despite the series’ charm, it wasn’t worth the effort to watch it, because of the way it normalizes Mr. Trump and endorses the false narrative that it was white working-class families who elected him. At the same time, I’m reluctant to conclude that the popularity of the new “Roseanne” proves growing support for the president any more than the imminent reboot of “Lost in Space” suggests a national yearning for a trip to Alpha Centauri. But the controversy around the grandchild, Mark, drew my attention. Nine years old, he wears skirts to school, paints his nails and on the whole prefers “colors that pop.” And yet, Mark is not transgender — he says, quite firmly, that he’s a boy. When Roseanne tells him that you have to pick your battles in life, and she asks exactly how important this all is to him, Mark replies, bravely and succinctly, “It’s important.” So here’s a boy who loves being femme, who’s willing to suffer what the world has in store for him as a result, but who we are told clearly is not trans, and whose interest in glitter and miniskirts, according to him, has nothing to do with actual gender dysphoria. It’s a distinction that was lost on one right-wing group, One Million Moms, whose boycott petition of the show reads in part: “The sexualization and moral corruption of these children is child exploitation at its worst. No child should be introduced to the experience of mental disorders.” At the other end of the political spectrum, Brynn Tannehill, writing in Slate, says: “The character of Mark may seem like a positive portrayal to observers unfamiliar with Roseanne’s hostility to transgender people and the ideology she’s aligned herself with. But in reality, Mark’s gender nonconformity on a show starring the openly transphobic Roseanne Barr plays into a dogma that uses slightly expanded tolerance for (cis)gender expression as cover for rejecting the legitimacy of gender identity altogether.” Ms. Tannehill here refers to Ms. Barr’s long history of mocking and scorning trans people; her point is that a boy who wears nail polish and is, at the same time, decidedly not transgender fits into Ms. Barr’s worldview that gender-variant people are really just playing dress-up. She also notes that if the grandchild did come out as trans, Roseanne, the actress, would be the first person to disown her. What to make of all this? While I find a certain hypocrisy in the disconnect between the show’s embrace of Mark’s difference (“God did not give me this big a head to hold a narrow mind,” says Dan Conner) and Ms. Barr’s cruel comments about actual trans people (whom she equates with “a huge guy with boobs”), I’m still glad to see this character on TV. In part, because the millions of viewers of “Roseanne” — yes, including all those Trump voters — will see a family standing behind their child. “Wherever this lands with Mark, I’m O.K. with it,” says his mother. Another reason the show cheers me is that the world is filled with many, many children just like Mark. One such child is the son of the author Lori Duron, who provided counsel to the “Roseanne” showrunner, Sara Gilbert, in the creation of the character. I’ve known Ms. Duron since she published her book, “Raising My Rainbow,” back in 2013. “I don’t agree with a lot of the beliefs Roseanne holds and how vocal she is about them,” she told me. “But the portrayal of a gender-nonconforming kid is spot on.” What, I asked her, about the criticism that this portrayal erases real trans children whose struggle to be themselves involves something a lot more profound than the desire for colors that pop? “Why can’t this version of the story be told?” she replied. “I don’t want anyone to feel slighted — but I don’t want to be slighted, either. For my son to see himself on TV was really, really powerful.” When I asked whether her family was hurt by criticism from people on the right who have no real firsthand experience of trans kids, Ms. Duron pointed me to a tweet by the actor James Woods. There, Mr. Woods responded to an online photo of the Duron family holding signs that say, “I love my gender creative son,” by writing, “Wait until this poor kid grows up, realizes what you’ve done, and stuffs both of you dismembered into a freezer in the garage.” Charming. And still the Duron family, like the fictional Conners, and like so many thousands of real families with trans and gender-nonconforming children, carry on, with dignity, and love. It’s not easy — Ms. Duron reports that as her son has grown older, cruelty and bullying, even from longtime friends, has increased. Some of that bullying, no doubt, comes from people echoing the words of the real Roseanne. But, strangely, the antidote for it — courageously standing by children and adults whose sense of themselves is different — might yet be inspired by the fictional one. “Kudos to Darlene for letting Mark be himself,” Aunt Jackie says, just before Roseanne takes young Mark to school in his skirt. With any luck, this show might open hearts that have been closed, including — who knows? — the one belonging to its star. For thousands of brave kids, and the families that love them, this is no small matter. As Mark plaintively, and movingly notes, it’s important.