This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. There are a good number of lawyers who don’t love their jobs. Sure, the pay is often good. But the hours can be long and the work narrow, leaving many people without much sense of a mission. The lawyers who work for the Department of Justice, however, tend to feel quite differently about their work. I’ve known and interviewed many over the years, and they have some of the highest job satisfaction of any group of people I can think of. “You get to do good for a living, and in the name of your country,” as James Comey said in a 2005 speech to Justice Department employees (the same speech I highlighted in my column earlier this week). “If that doesn’t motivate you to work hard, nothing will.” To many Justice Department lawyers, doing good means pursuing equality under the law. They see themselves as representing some of the highest American ideals: Every citizen deserves the protection of the law, and no citizen is above the law. Donald Trump does not share the view that the United States has a fundamental set of rules that apply alike to rich and poor, powerful and powerless. “Trump isn’t someone who played close to the line a time or two, or once did a shady deal. He may well be the single most corrupt major business figure in the United States of America,” The Washington Post’s Paul Waldman wrote yesterday. Waldman then listed Trump’s scams: Trump University, bankrupt casinos, illegal labor, stiffed vendors and on and on and on. He has often figured out how to stop shy of outright illegality or, in other cases, to violate the law in ways that bring only minor sanctions. He has rarely faced big consequences for his misbehavior. But Trump now finds himself in a very different situation. The scale of the misbehavior by him and his associates appears to be large. It occurred on perhaps the biggest national stage of all, in a presidential campaign. And dozens of talented, committed Justice Department officials have the assignment of figuring out what he actually did. Thank goodness for them and for the work they are doing. “Mr. Trump has spent his career in the company of developers and celebrities, and also of grifters, cons, sharks, goons and crooks,” The Times editorial board writes. “He cuts corners, he lies, he cheats, he brags about it, and for the most part, he’s gotten away with it, protected by threats of litigation, hush money and his own bravado.” But, as the headline of that piece bluntly puts it: “The law is coming, Mr. Trump.” Facebook hearings. Mark Zuckerberg’s first day of Capitol Hill testimony revealed something troubling: Many lawmakers don’t understand how Facebook works. Zuckerberg repeatedly had to clarify basic aspects of the company, and some questions simply didn’t make sense. The Times’s Farhad Manjoo argues that lawmakers’ ignorance of Facebook’s technology and business model is one reason why they have failed to police it adequately. Recode’s Kara Swisher tweeted that if the goal were keeping big tech in check, “these were profoundly useless questions by the senators.” There may have been one upside to the clueless questions, though: They performed a public service, Issie Lapowsky writes in Wired, by “getting Zuckerberg to clearly articulate how Facebook works, and why it works that way.” For more on the hearing, you can read Alexis Madrigal’s summary for The Atlantic.