“I’m taking a break from the news.” It’s a refrain I hear more and more often. Last week, Dan Rather sent out a tweet saying that “even I feel I need a break” from the news sometimes. His remedy: a walk in the woods. Last year, the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism found that over a third of American respondents avoid the news, the main reason being the “depressing nature of the content itself.” The solution isn’t to soften the news, of course. But if journalism provided a more comprehensive view of the world, it might not be so oppressive. That’s one of the central arguments in Steven Pinker’s new book, “Enlightenment Now,” which assesses many forms of progress that have been made to improve the human condition in recent centuries and decades — progress that many people (in some cases most people) are unaware of or have lost sight of. I spoke with Mr. Pinker last week about some of the themes of his book. David Bornstein: What’s the main point of “Enlightenment Now”? Steven Pinker: There’s a coherent alternative to religious, nationalist and reactionary movements, namely the ideals of the Enlightenment: that we can use knowledge to enhance human flourishing. The Enlightenment, moreover, worked: We live longer, healthier, safer, wealthier, freer, more peaceful and more stimulating lives than those who came before us. And by “we” I don’t just mean we in the West. This progress is encompassing the world. D.B.: Why did you feel the need to write “Enlightenment Now” now? S.P.: The first impetus was coming across data sets showing that the state of humanity has been improving. It’s a conclusion one can’t appreciate from the news — because journalism covers the disasters, crises, dangers and injustices that remain. And until the Messiah comes, there will always be enough of them to fill Page One. Improvements, in contrast, are gradual, and often consist of things that don’t happen — an absence of war, or famine or crime in much of the world. One can spot them only by looking at data, which tally both the occurrences and the non-occurrences. When I came across data showing plunges in extreme poverty, illiteracy, war, violent crime, racism, sexism, homophobia, domestic violence, disease, lethal accidents and just about every other scourge, I thought these improvements deserved to be better known. The need for the book felt all the more acute with the rise of authoritarian populism and a reactionary mind-set that seeks to recover a golden age. Those movements depended on a dystopian picture of the world, enabling a leader who declared “Only I can fix it” and promised to wrench the country backward. D.B.: With regard to progress, what’s a common misunderstanding you come across? S.P.: The claim that modernity has left us all lonely and unhappy. In fact, the World Values Survey has found that in 85 percent of countries, happiness has increased. (Interestingly, the United States is not one of them; our happiness has stagnated.) Nor do claims about epidemics of loneliness, depression or suicide survive fact-checking. The illusion of a happiness decline is a symptom of what pollsters call the “optimism gap”: People are optimistic about their own lives but pessimistic about everyone else’s. D.B.: I know that some people worry that acknowledging progress will make us complacent. Do you encounter this? S.P.: Yes, and I respond that denying progress can make us fatalistic: If all our efforts at improving the human condition have failed, why throw good money after bad? More generally, people are so jaded by the narrative of decline that they can’t think coherently about progress; the concept just doesn’t compute. I’m regularly confronted with an example of something that has gone wrong, like the opioid epidemic or a rampage shooting, as a refutation of progress — as if progress meant that everything gets better for everyone everywhere always. That wouldn’t be progress; that would be magic. Progress consists of solving problems, and problems are inevitable. So of course things can get worse for some people sometimes. A more sensible way to think about progress is the framing by Barack Obama, presumably channeling John Rawls: If you had to choose a time to be born and you didn’t know who you’d be or where you’d be, what time would you choose? The answer is now. D.B.: Of the advances you cite in the book, what three strike you as the most important? S.P.: The components that go into the Human Development Index, namely being healthy, wealthy and wise. We live longer: Life expectancy at birth worldwide is now 71 years, and in the developed world, 80 years; through most of human existence it was around 30. Global extreme poverty has declined to 9.6 percent of the world population; 200 years ago, it was at 90 percent. In just the last 30 years, extreme poverty has declined by 75 percent — a stupendous achievement that is almost entirely unappreciated. Equally unappreciated is the fact that 90 percent of the world’s population under the age of 25 can read and write, including girls. In most of the history of Europe, no more than 15 percent could read and write, mostly men. D.B.: Do you think a reluctance to point to progress inhibits our ability to achieve more progress?  S.P.: Yes, particularly among liberals, who in joining the chorus of decline have unilaterally disarmed in the fight for judicious regulation and social spending. Take pollution. Since the formation of the Environmental Protection Agency in 1970, air pollution (aside from carbon dioxide) has fallen by 60 percent, even as Americans have become more populous and richer and have driven more miles. But because many liberals today can’t bring themselves to acknowledge progress, they have cleared the field for opponents of regulation like Scott Pruitt to claim that the regulations have done no good and have only cramped our lives and dragged down the economy. Rather than saying “Environmental regulation has improved the environment while allowing the economy to grow,” they have said, ineffectually, “If you oppose regulation, you’re a bad person.” The same is true with poverty. Ronald Reagan famously wisecracked, “Some years ago, the federal government declared war on poverty, and poverty won.” Few liberals would disagree. But Reagan was mistaken. If you factor in government social spending, such as the earned-income tax credit, rates of poverty have declined significantly. But here again liberals hand their opponents a weapon: the conclusion that all social programs are ineffective. D.B.: Journalists typically write about sudden rather than gradual changes. But progress unfolds slowly. How could the news better reflect it? S.P.: If I were an editor, I’d impose a rule that before a pundit writes about any putative change or trend, he or she must compare the present to the past. Commentators should be more data-oriented, especially now that data are so much more widely available. Also, I’d put the kibosh on a pernicious journalistic habit: reporting a small reversal in a trend (because it’s “news”) while ignoring the far more numerous year-by-year improvements (because they’re not news). This is journalistic malpractice, because it gives readers an impression that is opposite to reality. D.B.: You’ve noted that our perception of reality is subject to a number of cognitive biases, such as the “availability heuristic” and “negativity bias.” What can we do about it?  S.P.: Like many cognitive psychologists, I think that curriculums that aim at de-biasing and statistical literacy should begin early, including an explicit awareness of the fallacies we’re vulnerable to. It should be part of our conventional wisdom never to trust our intuitions about risk and danger, and to try to circumvent them by seeking data and reasoning about them probabilistically. Some psychologists despair that it’s naïve to hope that we can overcome our illusions and biases. But history shows that we can outgrow our collective irrationality. We don’t explain disease by miasmas or evil spirits — most people with a sinus infection take antibiotics rather than calling in an exorcist. We don’t engage in human sacrifice to bribe gods for better weather or victory on the battlefield. Not even the most know-nothing politician today would appeal to astrology. So upgrading our intellectual culture can in fact allow us to outgrow our irrationality and delusions. D.B.: When you want to understand deeper changes unfolding around the world, what information sources do you turn to? S.P.: I go to data set aggregators like Max Roser’s OurWorldinData.org, Marian Tupy’s HumanProgress.org, and Hans, Ola and Anna Rosling’s Gapminder. I also rely on books that cover trends rather than events, such as Angus Deaton’s “The Great Escape,” Charles Kenny’s “Getting Better” and Steven Radelet’s “The Great Surge.” Reports from N.G.O.s and universities are also useful. My understanding of war was upended when I started reading the Human Security Reports from Simon Fraser University in British Columbia and reports from similar projects in Uppsala and Oslo. Every year they give the world a quantitative report card on refugees, terrorism, genocide, and civil and interstate war. All these sources draw a picture of the world that is quite different from the daily coverage.