Mark Zuckerberg promises that Facebook can do better to protect our privacy. Three times during his testimony before Congress on Tuesday, he used the same example: Face recognition technology, he explained, should require “special consent” from users. He left out a key fact: This week, lobbyists paid by Facebook are working with Illinois lawmakers backed by Facebook to gut the state’s face recognition privacy law, the strongest in the nation. This should make us very skeptical about any calls for a broad, European-style privacy law that would apply across technologies and platforms. We cannot underestimate the tech sector’s power in Congress and in state legislatures. If the United States tries to pass broad rules for personal data, that effort may well be co-opted by Silicon Valley, and we’ll miss our best shot at meaningful privacy protections. In 1995, the E.U. passed broad privacy laws that applied to almost all personal data. The United States has taken a different path. Companies that collect consumer data can’t defraud or mislead their customers, and the Federal Trade Commission is a watchdog for those standards. Beyond those foundational protections, Congress has historically protected our data through “sectoral” laws that set specific rules for specific industries. Thus, records on the videos you watch, your credit report, health history, and other kinds of data are all protected by slightly different rules. This is far from a perfect system, and a flood of tech sector lobbying has made it worse. Since 2009, Facebook has increased its spending on lobbying fiftyfold. And the $11.5 million it spent in 2017 still ranked it third behind Amazon and Alphabet. Lobbying works. Congress hasn’t passed a single new major privacy law since a 2009 update to federal health privacy rules. Take a second to think of technologies popularized in the last nine years: drones, self-driving cars, Amazon Echo, Google Home, among others. If it blossomed after 2009, chances are, it is not regulated by any federal privacy law. What does that flood of lobbying look like? From 2011 to 2014, as a staffer for Senator Al Franken, then chairman of the Senate privacy subcommittee, I worked to pass a bill to force companies to ask for users’ permission before collecting or sharing records of their movements. The bill would have outlawed so-called “stalking apps” that let abusers secretly track their victims’ locations through their smartphones. Industry lobbyists outnumbered our supporters 54 to 2. Yet in 2012, thanks to a small coalition of privacy, women’s rights, and anti-stalking groups, we managed to pass the bill out of the Judiciary Committee. That’s when the lobbying really started. When I called a meeting of industry stakeholders, I had to move it from our 12-person conference table to the full Judiciary Committee hearing room, which seats four or five times that. The bill stalled. It was never again brought up for a vote. Passing a strong industry-specific privacy law is tough. But at least it’s possible. When the Obama administration tried to pass an omnibus privacy bill, the law’s original framework was promising. It stressed that consumers needed control of their information, transparency about how it was used, and accountability when it was abused. In 2015, after Silicon Valley weighed in, the bill that the White House put forward was so toothless that almost every major consumer privacy group opposed it. Around the time our anti-stalking bill stalled, I remember a lobbyist telling me that we should really consider setting our bill aside until Congress could pass a comprehensive privacy law. Now I know why. It could be that the Cambridge Analytica scandal will pave the way for previously impossible, European-style reforms. Facebook’s actions tell a different story. Even as it yells mea culpa, Facebook is calculating that it can kneecap new privacy rules with impunity. Facebook is spending its lobbying money not only to gut the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act but also to stop a new California consumer privacy ballot initiative. Those calculations are right — if we make this a broad debate about “personal data.” Let’s make this a debate about people and pass laws to address the threats they actually face. Let’s talk about the people who are still stalked every year through their smartphones. Or how retailers secretly use face recognition to spot shoplifters, even though the technology misfires more often when trying to identify African-Americans and women. Let’s make this a debate about how Facebook tracked people to determine if they had an “affinity” for African-Americans, Hispanics and Asians, and then let advertisers block those people from seeing real estate ads. It’s one thing to pit internet companies against the idea of “privacy.” It’s another to show a lawmaker the real people in her district who will be hurt by her failure to act. In 1967, Justice Potter Stewart declared that the Fourth Amendment “protects people, not places.” It’s time to recognize that privacy protects people, not data.