That the questioning of Mark Zuckerberg on Tuesday by two full Senate committees was considered a triumph for Mr. Zuckerberg — he made $3 billion personally as Facebook stock shot up during his testimony — shouldn’t come as a surprise. This was an unfair fight between a man who knew intimately the project being debated and a lot of people who didn’t. The occasion for his Senate hearing, and his appearance in the House on Wednesday, was a data breach that allowed a British political consulting firm working for the Trump campaign to gain access to 87 million Facebook profiles, but as the questioning unfolded Mr. Zuckerberg behaved as if he were the only competent one in the room. When Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, asked, “Would you agree that users should be able to access all of their information?” Mr. Zuckerberg seemed confused: “Senator, we have already a ‘download your information’ tool that allows people to see and to take out all of the information that Facebook — that they’ve put into Facebook or that Facebook knows about them. So, yes, I agree with that. We already have that.” Similarly, when Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana, asked, “Are you going to go back to work on giving me a greater right to erase my data?” Mr. Zuckerberg again appeared perplexed, saying, “Senator, you can already delete all the data that’s there.” This wasn’t quite the contemptuous Jimmy Fallon character — Nick Burns, Your Company’s Computer Guy — who briefly tries to explain the problem before shouting, “Move!,” and fixing it himself. But then again Mr. Zuckerberg had the benefit of intensive politeness training. Mr. Zuckerberg has been winning these unfair fights going on 15 years now. The idea that he’s the Computer Guy and we are the helpless office workers in his way exemplifies the attitude of Facebook and Silicon Valley more broadly. Famously, Facebook itself is the residue of an early unfair fight. Back in 2003, Mr. Zuckerberg was hired by three compatriots from Harvard — Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss and their friend Divya Narendra — to write code for their social network, ConnectU. Mr. Zuckerberg soon dropped the task only to reappear a couple of months later, on Feb. 4, 2004, with a social network site called Thefacebook.com. The allegation that Mr. Zuckerberg stole the idea was fought in court and ended in a settlement that netted the Winklevosses and Mr. Narenda cash and company stock worth tens of millions of dollars. Mr. Zuckerberg plowed ahead under a new paradigm, later defined by Matt Welsh, Mr. Zuckerberg’s computer science professor at Harvard, as “Nerds win.” “Ideas are cheap and don’t mean squat if you don’t know how to execute on them,” Mr. Welsh explained in 2010 on his blog in response to the nasty portrait of Mr. Zuckerberg in the movie “The Social Network”: “To have an impact you need both the vision and the technical chops, as well as the tenacity to make something real. Mark was able to do all of those things, and I think he deserves every bit of success that comes his way.” In the past, Mr. Zuckerberg’s talents could only be a tool for richer and better-connected peers like the Winklevosses, who would provide the money and define the purpose of the project. By the mid-2000s, however, Mr. Zuckerberg could turn the tables. “The fact that we could sort of rent machines for, you know, like $100 a month and use that to scale up to a point where we had 300,000 users is pretty cool and it’s a pretty unique thing that’s going on in technology right now,” Mr. Zuckerberg told Harvard computer science students when he came back to campus in 2005 as a 21-year-old entrepreneur. At the time of the talk, Mr. Zuckerberg estimated that Google had 250 million page views a day, with thousands of machines and 5,000 employees, while Facebook had significantly more page views (400 million), hundreds of machines and just barely 50 employees. By then, Larry Page and Sergey Brin had already given up control of Google as the price for venture capital to keep the project running, agreeing to an outside chief executive, as investors had insisted. To this day, Mr. Zuckerberg retains majority control over Facebook and remains its chief executive — his decisions about regulation, privacy and transparency can mean happiness or misery for the more than two billion citizens of Facebook nation — majestic powers that are enshrined when you check the right box on the terms of service agreement. Peter Thiel, the first outside investor in Facebook and a longtime adviser to Mr. Zuckerberg, sees a founder-led tech start-up as something like an independent cell that can help drive social change. “A start-up,” he writes in his book, “Zero to One,” “is the largest endeavor over which you can have definite mastery. You can have agency not just over your own life, but over a small and important part of the world.” In these extraordinary times, we are learning how society changes when it is in the hands of power-drunk engineers. Products and services are delivered much more reliably and efficiently. We are able to communicate quickly, directly, widely. But there are serious problems, too, and they are far more serious than even critics realized at first. To start, these Silicon Valley titans are in denial about history. They pride themselves on not bending to what has come before. Is there racism and sexism in the United States? Didn’t happen on my watch! Computers don’t see sex or color. When pressed by the few senators of color about Facebook’s complicity in running real estate ads aimed exclusively at white people, which would violate the Fair Housing Act, Mr. Zuckerberg defined this as a particularly compelling challenge for artificial intelligence software. Ads can no longer be explicitly targeted to racial groups, he said, though, of course, the rub is that there are plenty of surrogates for race that advertisers can presumably still use. This led to the absurd observation from Mr. Zuckerberg, in response to a question from Senator Mazie Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, that “most of the enforcement today is still that our community flags issues for us when that comes up.” How the community can identify when a real estate ad is appearing only to white people remains a mystery. Notably, there was no declaration from Mr. Zuckerberg about the pain of racial inequality, nor an apology for Facebook’s role in perpetuating it. To Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, he simply said, “I’m not happy with where we are.” There is an unhealthy detachment — a virtualness — to the destruction caused by Silicon Valley innovations. One can’t help thinking that the ability to reset or reboot a computer has infiltrated companies’ calculations about the cost of disruption and destruction. Despite the length of Mr. Zuckerberg’s Senate appearance, there was no serious reckoning with what happened in the 2016 election. Instead, there was an insistent focus on the future, which for Mr. Zuckerberg was synonymous with one phrase, “A.I.” In five to 10 years, he promised, artificial intelligence will clean up the mess that is Facebook in 2018. The problems with Facebook emerge from its lack of a human touch, but Mr. Zuckerberg doubles down on software. On Wednesday, Representative David McKinley, a West Virginia Republican, displayed recent Facebook ads offering opioids for sale without a prescription and addressed Mr. Zuckerberg directly. “Facebook is actually enabling an illegal activity, and in so doing you are hurting people,” he said. “Would you agree with that statement?” Mr. Zuckerberg’s response was to concede things were bad but to hold out the promise of the future. “We need to build more A.I. tools that can proactively find that content,” he said. As long as the discussion was about software — how it works, how it can be improved, how users interact with it — Mr. Zuckerberg holds the upper hand. When the discussion is about values, he is as confused as the rest of us, and takes refuge in the belief that society is nothing more than a series of market-based online interactions, as captured, absorbed and understood by engineers. Government regulation, in this scheme, is a product of a corrupt, inefficient political system; self-regulation, on the other hand, is a product of people voting with their actions and brilliant engineers devising solutions to meet their needs. A smug interpretation that Mr. Zuckerberg outwitted dopey legislators only plays into the Silicon Valley view that being called before Congress to answer questions is a bug of our democracy, instead of a vital feature.