Four scientists in Tyvek suits and rubber boots carried an aluminum fishing boat toward an opening in a granite rock face in northern Georgia. Mist cascaded from surrounding mountains, curling over swollen streams, obscuring signs for turnoffs like Warwoman Road. This was “Deliverance” country; the 1972 film was shot nearby. Along with a half-dozen researchers, I stood in the rain on the last day of an unusually warm February as the white-clad figures entered Black Diamond Tunnel, a segment of a never-completed railway begun in the 1850s that is now partly flooded. They set the boat beside a makeshift landing, climbed aboard, switched on helmet lamps and set off down a black river. Christopher Cornelison, a research assistant professor and principal investigator at the BioInnovation Laboratory at Kennesaw State University, watched his colleagues recede into Stygian blackness. Last year, they sprayed an antifungal agent in the tunnel to see if it would protect the bats that live there against a pathogen that has decimated bat populations across the country. Now they were back to see the results. “It’s taken me years to get to this point,” he said. Twelve years ago white-nose syndrome was first detected in a bat in a cave in Schoharie County, in upstate New York. Since then the syndrome’s cause, the fungal pathogen Pseudogymnoascus destructans,  has spread across at least 31 states and five Canadian provinces, striking hibernating bats. More than six million are thought to have died. Some infected colonies have experienced a mortality rate of more than 95 percent. P. destructans is one of several pathogens to have invaded the United States, this one having arrived from Europe. How it got here is unclear, although one theory is that it was unwittingly carried into that New York cavern by someone who had come into contact with it in Europe. What is clear are the economic implications. Bats eat insects that damage crops, saving farmers billions of dollars every year on pest control, according to the United States Geological Survey. And the disease continues to spread. Two years ago, it was confirmed in bats in Washington State. We were in Georgia at the height of what researchers informally call “bat season,” when teams head underground in a national response coordinated by the federal Fish and Wildlife Service. For counting and collecting, these researchers sometimes enlist recreational cavers like me from the National Speleological Society. At a time when government seems under unrelenting attack, state and federal agencies, private conservation organizations and universities have been working together to stop this killer. A recent study found that the fungus caused by the pathogen can be killed  by ultraviolent light. Efforts are also underway to develop a vaccine. At the Black Diamond Tunnel, scientists had been testing an antifungal agent called B23, derived from an unlikely source, the stem tissues of wild pineapples growing in the Bolivian Amazon basin. With a commercial mosquito fogger bolted to a remote-controlled boat, christened Batilda by Dr. Cornelison’s team, researchers had sprayed several applications of B23 in the tunnel during the previous year. Because the tunnel was man-made and contained few other species, it was a perfect testing ground for this agent. The tunnel’s tricolored bat population numbered over 5,000 in 2013 but was down to 152 in a count last year. “If the numbers are too low today, we may have to abandon the project,” Pete Pattavina, a bat biologist for the federal government, told me as we drove to the site. “It’s hard to justify the continued expense if we only have a few survivors.” Not everyone thinks the efforts are worthwhile. The National Speleological Society, dismayed by the closing of caves on federal land in what it sees as a misguided effort to prevent the spread of white-nose syndrome, thinks the war has been lost, that the government efforts are putting bats at greater risk and that, in any event, the disease is going to run its course. This may be what happened in Europe, where bats appear have developed resistance to it. I don’t agree. While targeted cures like the one being tested in Black Diamond would likely be impractical for most wild caves, they could potentially slow the leading edges of the disease. Kelly Lutsch, a first-year graduate student of Dr. Cornelison, has been surveying concrete culverts along Interstates 75 and 95 through Georgia’s coastal plains. She believes that infected bats using the culverts could be carrying the pathogen south into cave-rich zones near the Florida panhandle. If so, spraying the culverts with B23 might be warranted. One Georgia cave near the Florida border hosts a robust colony of 90,000 southeastern myotis bats. At the Black Diamond Tunnel, the results of the spraying were encouraging. After an hour, the team slowly paddled back to share its results: 178 bats, up by 26 from the last count. Dr. Cornelison cautioned against interpreting this as a success for B23, since other factors could affect the count. Still, he declared himself “ecstatic” that the number was higher, not lower, and plans to test B23 again in the tunnel. “I don’t think we will ever know the full ecological effect” of white-nose syndrome, Mr. Pattavina said. “We only realize the value of biodiversity when catastrophe happens.” But for the moment, for one tiny group of survivors in a Georgia tunnel, there is a glimmer of hope amid the catastrophe.