Not long ago I received a MacArthur Fellowship, which is sometimes called the “genius grant,” much to the MacArthur Foundation’s disagreement and my own. But receiving the grant did make me think about what genius means and why we are attached to an individualistic notion of it, even if we are sometimes being ironic when we use the word. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, a genius is “an exceptionally intelligent or talented person, or one with exceptional skill in a particular area of art, science, etc.” I exhibited quite a bit of genius at a younger age, beginning with how I was rejected by every college I applied to, except one. Eventually I left that school and made it to the University of California, Berkeley, where, at 19, I was brilliant enough to get into a nonfiction writing class taught by Maxine Hong Kingston. She was already famous for writing “The Woman Warrior” and winning the National Book Award. It was an intimate seminar of 14 students. Every day I would come to this master class, sit three or four feet from the professor, and … fall asleep. This is why, when I see students falling asleep in my own classes, I don’t disturb them. Perhaps they actually are geniuses. Maxine would probably qualify as one. Although she never said anything to me in class about my narcolepsy, she wrote me a long note at semester’s end. She mentioned that I seemed rather alienated and that perhaps I should make use of the university’s excellent counseling services. Fortunately, I never took her up on her advice. If I had sought counseling, I might have become a more mature, emotionally well-adjusted human being. But I preferred becoming a writer. I also became a scholar, another calling where it seems that being emotionally well-adjusted is not really necessary. I wrote a dissertation on Asian-American literature from 1896 to 1996. I hoped I would one day become a writer, and that would include being an Asian-American writer. I saw myself as belonging somewhere in this Asian-American genealogy, of which Maxine Hong Kingston is also a part. Nowadays, becoming an Asian-American writer, or being an American writer who happens to be of Asian descent, requires hard work and some luck but not much genius. The Asian-American literary world is well established, and the path to publication is clear. Go to college, get an M.F.A. in creative writing, write about something Asian or Asian-American, be picked up by a New York publishing industry hungry for the next hot multicultural commodity and the next voice for the voiceless, a term which has indeed been used to describe me. This makes me think — have people who used this term ever actually met any Vietnamese people? Been to a Vietnamese restaurant, much less a Vietnamese household or Vietnam itself? We’re really, really loud. The situation, now and in the past, is that the minority and marginalized communities of this or any other country are often not voiceless. They’re simply not heard. That’s the problem with being called a voice for the voiceless, whose exceptional status is related to what we call genius. We would rather deal with a solo voice than a chorus, or a cacophony, of voices. And in praising today’s voice for the voiceless, we would just as soon forget, or not even know about, all the other voices for the voiceless that came before. I think back to Edith Maude Eaton, half-Chinese and half-white, who adopted a Chinese pen name and wrote as Sui Sin Far. She advocated for Chinese immigrants and chose to be Chinese in the early years of the 20th century, at a time when to be Chinese was to be despised in North America. She published one book of short stories, “Mrs. Spring Fragrance,” and died in poverty and obscurity at an early age in 1914. I think back to Carlos Bulosan, who migrated from the Philippines in the 1930s as a colonial ward of the United States. He worked as a journalist and a labor organizer and became a nationally celebrated writer. His fame peaked with his book “America Is in the Heart” in 1946. By 1954, however, suspected of having Communist sympathies, he was a target of McCarthyism. He died poor and alone, of pneumonia. I think back to John Okada, who fought in World War II even though his Japanese-American family was in an internment camp. Okada came back from the war and published “No No Boy” in 1957, the first novel dealing with the little-known story of Japanese-American draft resisters. America did not want to think about the internment, and the Japanese-American community, intent on being patriotic, did not want to acknowledge draft resisters. “No No Boy” immediately disappeared. Okada died relatively young and his widow, in despair at his rejection, burned his second manuscript. Those are three of the most iconic Asian-American writers, and I wish genius grants were retroactive. It took genius to decide to write about Asian-Americans at a time when there was no market for Asian-American literature, no recognition for Asian-American writers, and when there weren’t even any Asian-Americans. (Until the 1960s, we were collectively Orientals.) Thinking back to writers like Sui Sin Far, Carlos Bulosan and John Okada, it is clear that genius is too often unrecognized in its day. I know my good luck is at least partly due to the sacrifice of writers who came before me. Our notion of genius as an individual nature fits well with the dominant Western fantasy of the author as a romantic loner, which also helps to excuse the various kinds of bad behavior that writers are sometimes guilty of. While the fellowship is a nice acknowledgment of how I sat by myself in a room for thousands of hours trying to be a writer, I don’t think that lonely work would have been successful without my genealogy and my communities. The Asian-American community, with its field of Asian-American studies and its lineage of Asian-American writers, was one of the most important for me. This reminds me of how one of the forgotten definitions of “genius” refers not to an individual but to a group’s “distinctive character or spirit” and its “prevalent feeling, opinion, sentiment or taste.” It’s in this sense that I recognize and affirm the genius of an Asian-American spirit of resistance. Ever since Chinese immigrants came to this country in the 19th century, Asian-Americans have been speaking up and speaking out against inequality and for justice. That spirit also includes a commitment to solidarity, to not giving in to the selfishness and abusiveness for which solitary genius can be used as an excuse. That, to me, is the genius I wish we celebrated more often — a commitment to carrying out our passions in such a way that elevates all of us.