In an essay published last week, “Smells Like Home,” Sofija Stefanovic wrote about the scents of her childhood: “To me, the Belgrade of my childhood smelled like the Marlboro cigarettes my mother smoked — even while I was in utero (it was the ’80s) — and the perfume my aunt wore and chestnuts roasting in the winter, which sellers scooped into a paper cone and we ate on our way to my grandma’s place.” Many readers were transported back to their own childhoods — to muffins baking in the oven, to their own parents’ cigarette smoke, to freshly cut grass, to the aroma of the big city. Here are some of the memories they shared, edited lightly for clarity and length. As goofy as this sounds, the smell of gasoline immediately transports me back to the farm in Wisconsin where I grew up. My dad used to fill the tractor with gasoline and on occasion, he would let me sit on his lap while he drove it, plowing the fields in spring. I loved riding on that tractor, smelling the fresh, moist ground being plowed up while the soft, cool wind blew in my face. The smell of gasoline triggers such happy, secure and warm memories when I was a small child. How I still miss that farm. —Marge Keller Many years into adulthood, I visited the school where I attended first grade. The smell of cinnamon toast coming from the cafeteria hit me and I was 6 years old again. —Hollywooddood For my husband, who is Italian, it’s the smell of a new book. Whenever he walks into a bookstore, before he picks out the book he will eventually buy, he will leaf through several, and fan its pages through his thumb as he inhales the slight breeze this action creates. I watch him sometimes as he closes his eyes and smiles. “What are you doing?” I asked, half alarmed, the first time I saw him do this. “Remembering my childhood in Italy.” —Cristina When I was 18 I traveled by myself to London. There was a big-city smell that stuck in my mind; not sure exactly what it was, but probably diesel fumes mixing with the rain. It doesn’t sound romantic, but once in a while I pick up that smell and it immediately reminds me of that fun trip. —Iconic Icon In the spring of 1967 my brother came to visit me on the Lower East Side. He was home from his time in the First Marine Battalion in Vietnam. I planned to surprise him with a visit to an Italian grocery and deli that smelled exactly like the store we went to as children in the coal mining town we grew up in. There was the smell of herbs and spices, dried fish, aged cheeses, olive oil, and there were cookies and breads, tamarind syrup for we we called Italian soda, all the smells of our first-generation Tuscan and Piemontese family. As we walked down the stairs to the shop I walked ahead of him and opened the door. All the smells of childhood flooded the air around us. As I turned toward him to celebrate, to my great surprise he stopped, then sat down on the stairs and wept. All I could say was, “I am so sorry, so sorry.” We sat there and cried together. —Italo-American Grew up in Southern California’s San Fernando Valley (“the” Valley) but now live just a mountain range over, in the San Gabriel Valley. The smell of mowed grass, orange blossoms, the smell you smell before it rains (more and more rare, it seems). The smell of coffee brewing (which is rare now, given that no one uses a percolator anymore). All of those take me home. —rms I was in middle school and our English teacher had us close our eyes and she passed down the row holding something under each of our noses. Then we were to write the first thing that popped in our minds. I smelled something I didn’t recognize but the image of a specific chair in my grandmother’s house immediately came to mind, so I wrote about a brown rocking chair. When we finished, she revealed it had been tobacco leaves in a pouch — the kind for a pipe. I was totally confused. Later that evening I shared this with my parents. “Oh yeah, you used to sit in Papa’s lap while he packed his pipe. That was his chair.” Papa died when I was 3 — but that smell was stuck in my brain with that chair. —JMiller My favorite smells of childhood were the corner candy store (newsprint and sugar), the ice cream store and bakery. And I still remember the smell of that varnish or wax used for the wood floors in the school gym; for some reason that always comforted me, though it was likely toxic. —The way it is For me, that would be the yeasty/malty smell from the neighborhood brewery (which only brewed nonalcoholic pilsner and a malt beverage, as alcoholic beer was illegal in Iceland from the 1920s to 1989) and the incredibly strong and fishy smell from the factories making fishmeal (mostly from capelin and herring) when the wind was blowing from the right (or wrong) direction. To this day, I don’t really know what fishmeal is used for, probably not for human consumption. The smell of money, they used to call it. —Porvardur Ragnar Halfanarson When I smell bleach, I am immediately transported back to the 1950s. If I close my eyes, I am in my childhood home’s basement laundry room. It always makes me smile. —BSR Fresh-cut grass, homemade bread baking, the stink of the paper mill when the wind was right, my great-grandmother’s cypress wood house, the open fireplace on a cold winter night (no central heating). —Jennifer Rabalais When I was in fourth grade (1968) and my sister in kindergarten our parents pulled us from school for seven weeks from October to December to travel in Europe. One of the stops was to Bialogard, Poland, to visit my father’s relatives. I remember sleeping in my great-uncle’s very humble house on a true featherbed, and waking up one morning to the smell of pumpkin spice muffins baking in the kitchen. Now, every autumn when the bakeries and coffee shops pump out pastries and hot drinks with pumpkin spice aroma, I am immediately transported to that house in Poland filled with the most gracious hosts ever. —Kathy J I was born in Seattle and our family later moved to the dry, inland part of the state. My grandparents continued to live in Seattle and we would visit them at holiday times, which were some of our happiest. For days after we got back from a visit to them, I would inhale the slightly mildewy Seattle scent that lingered on suitcases and clothes to prolong that happy feeling. —felixfelix The smell of plastic will always remind me of opening a new Mattel toy! I’m immediately transported to my room in the home in which I grew up, happily tearing into a new Liddle Kiddle or Barbie! —Nan Burton My grandparents had homemade wine stored in their basement and dried herbs from their garden, including braided garlic they bought in bulk. I would play in that basement in the summertime while my grandfather read his newspaper or worked on some project because it was the coolest part of the house. Occasionally he and I would eat lunch in the basement and I would watch him uncork a wine bottle from his stash. Sometimes, when cooking and I open a bottle of good red wine, I remember the basement smell, as it must be a combination of wine and herbs. —Lawrence DeMattei During one part of my career as a journalist, I had to pay regular visits to Japan’s Finance Ministry. Passing through the non-air-conditioned entrance in the summer stopped me in my tracks: The smell of the old, hot wood there was identical to the smell of my grandmother’s front room. —eml16 Walking to coffee with a friend, we strolled by a bowling alley with the door open to the sidewalk. As the mixed smells of cigarettes, spilled beer and, yes, probably some vomit emanated from the thick shag carpeting, she took a deep, luxurious breath and let out a long satisfied “Ahhhhhh ....” Amazed, I asked for an explanation. She said that she grew up on a farm and the whole family would go into town on Saturday night for bowling and pizza, and this smelled like those happy childhood memories. —Bob HG My mother, Chanel No. 5. Walking into her bedroom as she readied to go out for the evening. I don’t wear perfume but I gravitate toward women who do, remembering those evenings of preparation. At those moments, she is with me. —lmsseattle