This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. In a New Yorker piece this weekend, Adam Davidson predicted that the final stage of the Trump presidency had already begun. The investigation into Michael Cohen, the president’s personal lawyer and longtime fixer, marks the beginning of the end, Davidson argued. “I am unaware of anybody who has taken a serious look at Trump’s business who doesn’t believe that there is a high likelihood of rampant criminality,” Davidson wrote. “He had a small, sad operation, mostly run by his two oldest children and Michael Cohen, a lousy lawyer who barely keeps up the pretenses of lawyering and who now faces an avalanche of charges, from taxicab-backed bank fraud to money laundering and campaign-finance violations.” If that forecast is correct, there is little wonder that President Trump seems to be thinking more seriously about firing Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, and perhaps Robert Mueller, the special counsel. Doing either could disrupt the investigations into his 2016 campaign and his businesses. “Make no mistake,” The Times editorial board writes, in a full-page editorial today, “If Mr. Trump takes such drastic action, he will be striking at the foundation of the American government, attempting to set a precedent that a president, alone among American citizens, is above the law.” The responsibility will then fall to Congress to defend “the American experiment itself.” Deficit hawks. Republicans like to describe themselves as fiscal conservatives. But Democrats have been the real fiscal conservatives over the past 40 years — and I think they haven’t gotten enough credit, because journalists and other experts are afraid to say that one party has a better record than the other party on a major policy issue. That’s the subject of my column this morning. It contains a chart that makes a stark point: Over the last four decades, every Republican president has overseen an increase in the deficit, and every Democratic president has overseen a decline. The column has more details, on both the deficit itself and the culture of both-sidesism. The power of community. If you haven’t yet read my colleague Kathleen O’Brien’s powerful piece about being the mother of a special-needs child, I hope you’ll do so. “I went back to check on him 10 minutes later and there he was, awake and waving his hand. And I thought, there is no one on earth who knows how I feel, exhausted and scared, watching my child flap and flap in the dark,” O’Brien writes. “But I was wrong.”