It made no sense, politically, for Robert Kennedy to spend the better part of a day — April 16, 1968 — at the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota. Every day was precious in a campaign that had only started a few weeks before. He had a hard primary coming up in Indiana, on May 7, and another in Nebraska a week later. South Dakota’s primary was not until June 4, and no one would pay much attention because that was the day of the all-important California primary. Few Democrats paid much attention to South Dakota anyway. It had leaned Republican since it came into the Union, in 1889, and it would be difficult to harvest many delegates from these sparsely populated rural counties. Kennedy’s brother John won fewer than 42 percent of its voters in 1960. Pine Ridge was even farther off the grid. Its 3,469 square miles of badlands were bigger than the two smallest states, Rhode Island and Delaware, combined. But its population was tiny — estimates ranged from 15,000 to 40,000, and the fact that it was so hard to count revealed the skepticism with which residents regarded federal authorities. Kennedy’s advisers crowded him with reasons not to go. One aide, Fred Dutton, was adamant. “I told him, we’re in a campaign, and he should knock off the Injuns,” he said later. “He wrote me back a note, which I kept. It’s in longhand on yellow paper. We were using legal tablets. He wrote, ‘Those of you who think you’re running my campaign don’t love Indians the way I do. You’re a bunch of bastards.’ ” That seemed to settle things. But getting to Pine Ridge would be difficult; the nearest airport was an hour away, in another state, and the roads were not good. A day trip would cost precious time when there were big-city bosses, elected officials and money men to cultivate. It might also cost voters, by alienating the white voters Kennedy needed to win, in South Dakota and every other state. To go to Pine Ridge was essentially to leave the known political universe. It was almost like leaving the United States, for an older sovereignty, one that preceded the government that had declared itself into existence in 1776. But perhaps that was part of the appeal for a country that seemed to have run out of answers in the spring of 1968. Kennedy obviously knew how to run a normal political campaign — he had masterminded his brother’s successful presidential election in 1960. But the old playbooks were useless in 1968. Lyndon Johnson, so dominant a few months earlier, was out. Richard Nixon, so irrelevant, was back. The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. had been martyred two weeks earlier, and America’s cities were still smoldering. In response, politicians on the right were talking about “law and order,” and George Wallace, a segregationist Democrat, had formed the American Independent Party for a run of his own. The one person who seemed able to hold together all of these fissiparous elements was Robert Kennedy, and he was now headed for the heart of Indian Country, about as far from conventional politics as it was possible to be. This was a very new frontier. But to Kennedy it made perfect sense. He had a longstanding interest in the problems of Native Americans, going back at least to his time as attorney general. In September 1963, he delivered a forceful speech to a congress of native leaders, calling their treatment “a national disgrace.” As a senator from New York, he enjoyed visiting upstate reservations, and soon was traveling around the country, dragging his staff and children to remote Indian schools, even while on vacation. He was so outraged by the deplorable conditions he found that he created a Senate Subcommittee on Indian Education and served as its chairman. South Dakota’s young Democratic senator, George McGovern, also served on the committee. McGovern’s victory in 1962 had shown that the old coalitions were shifting, even in a conservative red state. In the aftermath of Dr. King’s death, the civil rights movement was still a powerful force, leveling obstacles wherever it could, even out there on the prairie. Women were beginning to benefit from the addition of the word “sex” to Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, and as the decade progressed, other groups began to assert their own claims to justice. Only five days before Kennedy’s visit to Pine Ridge, Lyndon Johnson signed the Indian Civil Rights Act. Kennedy’s searing experience on a speaking tour of South Africa in 1966 may have had something to do with it, too. In Cape Town and elsewhere, he had enraged the apartheid regime with his forceful speeches against racial oppression. South Africa had created “homelands,” as the government called them; critics called them “Bantustans.” African tribal populations were relocated there, to live in deep poverty. They were not very different from Native American reservations. As a senator, Kennedy had focused increasingly on poverty, urban and rural, calling attention to inequality in a series of trips into some of the poorest parts of the country. In early February, he spent two days in eastern Kentucky’s coal country, meeting with families trying to survive day to day. It was as if he were the senator from a much larger constituency than New York. For all of these reasons, it was no surprise to see Kennedy devote extraordinary resources to a political constituency that had no ability to elect him. According to the historian Thurston Clarke, Kennedy scheduled approximately 70 events during the first month of his campaign — 10 of them on Indian reservations or at Indian schools. He began his journey on the morning of April 16. It required a complicated set of flights to reach a tiny town in Nebraska that served as the nearest airport. The long drive from there to the reservation in South Dakota was an education in itself. There was no infrastructure of the type Americans were used to. No buses, no banks, no supermarkets. Unemployment was 75 percent. Half of the homes lacked electricity or running water. Schools had no supplies. Life expectancy — 48 years for men, 52 for women — was the second-lowest in the hemisphere, after that in Haiti. Twelve days earlier, Kennedy had accomplished what seemed impossible, when he connected with an angry and distrustful African-American audience in Indianapolis the night that Dr. King was killed. A few days later, after attending a Sunday church service in Washington, he took an impromptu walk through the riot-torn parts of the city, attracting an awe-struck crowd of hundreds. Now he was doing it again, forging a common bond with fellow citizens who looked nothing like him. Kennedy’s motorcade stopped here and there; at Calico Village he sat with a 10-year-old Lakota Sioux, Christopher Pretty Boy, who had lost his parents in a car crash a week earlier. McGovern had tagged along for the day, and together he and Kennedy convened a public hearing of their subcommittee, in a community hall. More than a thousand attended. McGovern later said that he had never seen “so many Indian voters assembled in one place.” He and Kennedy listened as people poured out their stories of hunger, joblessness and inadequate health care. After the hearing ended, Kennedy made an impetuous request: to see the small monument commemorating the massacre of Native Americans at Wounded Knee in 1890. As McGovern later recalled, it was just “a very simple, concrete slab with a small obelisk, and a little church out on the plains. It’s a very desolate area. It’s a mass grave.” But they went 30 miles out of their way to see it, even with a crowd of 5,000 waiting in the rain for a rally in Rapid City. Then, at the end of a long day, Kennedy flew to Eugene, Ore., for another day of campaigning. On the day of the California primary, June 4, the polls closed at 8 p.m. Shortly after 7, according to the journalist Jules Witcover, a party was beginning to break out in the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles. Kennedy stepped away to get the good news from South Dakota, which he had won convincingly. One Indian precinct had given him 878 votes, against nine for Eugene McCarthy and two for Lyndon Johnson. That small bit of news was soon forgotten in the chaos of jubilation and devastation that followed shortly afterward. It would be naïve to claim with any degree of certainty that Robert Kennedy was going to unite the strands of a country that had become badly divided even before 1968. But there remains something tantalizing about a politician who was evolving so quickly, asking such urgent questions, reaching liberals and conservatives alike. In Indiana, he won 85 percent of the black vote, while at the same time winning the seven counties where George Wallace had performed best in 1964. During his tour of Pine Ridge, Kennedy said, “These kinds of conditions cannot be permitted to exist in the United States.” A movement to secure Native American rights flourished briefly in the early 1970s, but 50 years later, it is difficult to feel that much has changed. Statistics remain elusive, but unemployment is about 80 percent, infant mortality is five times the national average and broadband access is about a quarter of what it is in the rest of the country. Life expectancy remains the same as it was on the day a presidential candidate went far out of his way to visit a forgotten group of fellow Americans. As Kennedy would say, we can do better than that.