This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. First: There’s a good argument that 2017 was the best year for American journalism in a very long time. The press broke story after story about a president who disdains the rule of law and democratic values — as well as story after story about sexual harassment and assault that had long been quietly tolerated. Yesterday’s Pulitzer Prizes honored much of this journalism, as well as other excellent work. You can read the full list of winners here. Congratulations to all of them. Regular readers of this newsletter know how important I think local journalism is to a healthy democracy, so I was especially pleased to see how many local news organizations won prizes — from Birmingham, Ala., on politics; Charlottesville, Va., on white-supremacist violence; Cincinnati, on the heroin epidemic; Des Moines, on health care; Phoenix, on the Trump border wall; and Santa Rosa, Calif. on wildfires. Does the deficit matter? My column yesterday on the Democrats’ strong record of reducing the deficit led to some criticism that’s worth sharing. The main point of the criticism: The Democrats don’t deserve praise, because reducing the deficit is bad policy. David Kusnet, a former Clinton administration official, tweeted: “Why should Democrats borrow the austerity policies preached by the Republicans whom Trump beat?” Joe Weisenthal, of Bloomberg, chided me for “furthering the unfounded notion that lower deficits are, per se, more ‘responsible.’ ” A reader named Russell Sharp wrote, of the Democrats: “They treat the deficit as a bigger deal than it should be. What’s accurate is that one party has done a good job of managing fiscal policy the way centrist pundits think it should be managed, whereas the other has not.” All of this is part of a broader reconsideration, happening among both conservative and liberal writers, of how much policymakers should care about the deficit. I’m of two minds about this reconsideration. On the one hand, there is some unavoidable arithmetic at work here. The deficit can’t simply get larger and larger over time, without some serious economic consequences. If every president ran up the deficit as much as George W. Bush did, financial markets would at some point begin to punish the United States government, out of a legitimate fear that it wouldn’t be able to repay its debts. Borrowing would become more expensive for this country, and our economy would suffer. “Rising deficits forever” just isn’t a serious economic position. And we should be grateful that one of our two political parties understands as much and has acted responsibly to reduce the deficit. On the other hand, I agree that Democrats and many independents have worried too much about the deficit in recent years. (And many Republicans have wrongly warned about the evils of deficits, even if they haven’t done anything to address those evils.) It seems clear that the federal government can run larger deficits than many observers thought — without spooking the markets. It’s also clear that our country has some big problems, more serious than the deficit, that government spending could alleviate: inequality; outdated infrastructure; a shortage of high-quality preschool, K-12 and higher education; a shortage of clean-energy research and subsidies; and so on. By all means, the next Democratic president should make these issues a top priority — and not worry, in all likelihood, about increasing the deficit along the way. If a future Republican president is instead left to deal with that deficit, that would only be fair, after the last 40 years. Ultimately, though, the deficit is not an artificial construct dreamed up by centrist pundits. It matters. For more on this subject, you can read “How We Think About the Deficit Is Mostly Wrong,” a Times Op-Ed last year by Stephanie Kelton, a professor at Stony Brook University; and a piece in Jacobin magazine by Kate Aronoff, in which she argues that Democrats’ fiscal responsibility plays into Republican hands. Worth remembering, given yesterday’s news. Sean Hannity — like his friend, President Trump — has a long history of telling lies. Here are a few samples of Hannity’s.