I’m attracted to diamonds because they are part of my family: My father is descended from a long line of jewelers, and my brothers now work in jewelry as well. For this film, I wanted to use my father’s voice to tell an animated story using diamonds as a metaphor for mankind through the ages. To me, the place of diamonds in society is as multifaceted as the gemstones themselves, full of paradoxes and intrigue. Since we discovered them thousands of years ago, mankind has turned diamonds into symbols of authority, power, passion or wealth. But the stone’s commercial exploitation has led to its ever-stricter standardization. We devalue imperfect diamonds, so to stay marketable, the diamond had to become more and more standardized in its appearance. But impurities are what give diamonds their individuality and character. In this film, I wanted to compare the way we insist on standardizing diamonds with how we force ourselves into narrow standards of perfection. So I decided to tell a story of the evolution of a human who spends his life working to rid himself of his individuality to achieve his ideal of self. Someone who loses the raw naïveté of childhood and becomes an adult who projects a smooth facade that is impervious to the outside world. Through this story, I was trying to explore the modern trajectories of our lives, which are increasingly supervised and competitive — and conformist. How do you cultivate your individuality in a world that wants to erect a single social model that everyone is supposed to aspire to? What if you want to remain a diamond in the rough ? In this film, the father figure tells the story in a playful way, half pedagogical but always assured. It’s a history over the centuries, exploring the transformation of the diamond, a stone he knows intimately. The texts evoke his doubts about the values he leaves to his children, but also the fear he feels for them in the face of a society that risks shaping and changing them — to the point where they may break.