This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. First: “She knew who she was, and she saw no need to apologize for it,” writes the journalist and biographer Jon Meacham, about Barbara Bush. I particularly enjoyed her line about a potential future First Spouse listening to her graduation speech at Wellesley College. Also, Christopher Buckley, one of her husband’s old speechwriters, remembers her as “Mrs. No-Nonsense,” and The Times obituary, by Enid Nemy, offers a sense of the sweep of Mrs. Bush’s life. For anyone inspired to read more, try Richard Ben Cramer’s classic political book, “What It Takes.” That was then. “All the evidence we find is that, as a political issue, it is falling flat, influencing very few votes, if any.” So said NBC’s David Brinkley on the air in 1972, referring to the story known as Watergate. Most Republicans assumed all the talk was merely a political hit job by the Democrats and the media — “character assassination,” as the White House press secretary said, “well conceived and coordinated, to discredit this administration and individuals in it.” Many other voters, for their part, “seemed willing to brush it off as just the kind of thing that happens in campaigns,” as the journalist Leon Neyfakh says, in his excellent podcast series, “Slow Burn.” In retrospect, we all know how Watergate ended: With evidence of serious wrongdoing by top officials, including President Richard Nixon, which led voters and members of Congress to turn on him. Facing certain impeachment, he resigned on Aug. 9, 1974. But the key insight of “Slow Burn,” Slate’s eight-episode history of Watergate, is that Watergate felt very different at the time. The break-in at the Watergate occurred on June 17, 1972, and for many months afterward, nothing seemed to change. Nixon won some major political victories, including his famous visit to China and two arms-control deals with the Soviets. He was re-elected in the biggest presidential landslide in the 20th century. He retained the support of most Republican voters and most Republican members of Congress into 1974. The only people who seemed to care about the scandals were the ones who were then known as the establishment and today are called the elites. “We were in a bubble in Washington, the journalistic part of Washington and I even think the congressional part of Washington,” the journalist Lesley Stahl recalls on the podcast. “Yes, we were very focused on this.” There is, of course, no guarantee that President Trump’s scandals — Russia, Michael Cohen and the rest — will follow the same course. Maybe the evidence isn’t as strong as it was in Nixon’s day (although it’s already quite strong and apparently getting stronger). And maybe today’s polarization means that Trump’s supporters in Congress and elsewhere will never turn on him. But it’s wrong to believe that because they continue to support him today, they always will. History suggests we’re still a long way from this story’s conclusion. If you like podcasts and haven’t yet listened to “Slow Burn,” you should. I’m mid-binge right now. Neyfakh also wrote a bracing Slate essay in February, “Nixon’s Downfall Was Not Inevitable.” Also: In Bloomberg yesterday, the political scientist Jonathan Bernstein explained how Republican loyalty during Watergate ultimately proved less strong than many people expected. On Twitter, Bernstein extended the analogy to Trump: “I don’t know whether Republican pols will ever turn against him. But it sure wouldn’t shock me if they did — and I can imagine it happening very quickly and decisively.” Programming note. About once a week, this newsletter will now include a few reader comments. My colleagues in the Opinion section will choose them from among those submitted on nytimes.com and Facebook. 