HOUSTON — It’s going to be strange, living in Houston without Barbara Bush. She was so much a part of this place, even if many of us just imagined that we had anything to do with her. All those literacy galas starring best-selling authors, the loyal appearances at Astros games (thank God she lived to see them win the World Series!), the endless questions about who she would and would not support, and the bracingly frank answers that often seemed a little jolting in a country-club Republican wife. (See most recently: “I don’t know how women” could vote for Donald Trump.) Unlike so many flash-in-the-pan socialites here, Mrs. Bush reigned like a semi-benevolent monarch for decades, particularly after she and 41 moved back to Houston permanently in the 1990s, following that painful loss to Bill Clinton. And once 43 took over the White House in 2000, the Bush stock, which never hit a low here, began to rise precipitously again. It will be very hard to forget all those dinner parties where to say an unkind word about any member of the Bush family was to assure that you were never, ever invited back. In the beginning, they didn’t cause much of a fuss. The Bushes came to Houston from West Texas in 1962, when George H.W. had already set the family on the path to wealth as president of a small oil company. Back then, there were lots of families who were linked to the oil business, and many of them were, well, more colorful. The Bushes were just another pair of Yankee immigrants without much flash, which in those days was the behavior of choice. Then George got into politics, running for president of the Harris County Republican Party in ’62. Most Texans were Democrats back then — even if they were right-wing Democrats — and Barbara’s introduction to local politics sounds about right. She got a flier in the mail calling her father, a publisher of women’s magazines, “a tool of the Commies,” as she wrote in her autobiography, and when she canvassed a neighborhood for her husband a woman kept spitting in her flowerpot while Mrs. Bush asked for her support. Another not-so-potential supporter answered the door in his underwear “and didn’t seem to mind a bit.” “There was some discussion about making George wear a cowboy hat to make him appear more Texan,” Mrs. Bush wrote, when things didn’t look so good. That idea didn’t fly, even if Mr. Bush had proved himself to be a real Texas oilman out in Midland. The truth was, the Bushes lived in Houston as they had lived on the East Coast, like well-bred Yankees. Their friends were other people who acted like Yankees, even if they weren’t real Yankees, like James Baker (the Hill School and Princeton had limited appeal in Houston then). Robert Mosbacher was, on the other hand, a sailing champion in football territory. They volunteered and played a lot of tennis and lived in comparatively modest, old-money neighborhoods like Tanglewood instead of parvenu River Oaks, and they joined the same kind of country club. (The one for the “fine old families” is the way one friend explained it.) The Bushes summered elsewhere, an activity that most heat-resistant Texans couldn’t even conceive of. The fact that some of the Bush kids went to public school wasn’t an anomaly at the time; sending some of the others to one of the city’s very few fancy private schools was. Things really changed when the Bush family’s rise to power coincided with Texas’ move to the Republican column in the oil-boom years of the late 1970s and the 1980s. Houston has always had a soft spot for local celebrities, and the Bushes served as Exhibit A for the city’s ambition. It was a time when all that yahoo stuff was falling out of favor, when Texas in general and Houston in particular were becoming more like the rest of the world — only bigger and better, of course. The Bushes were game to play along; the couple loved Houston the way they loved their nearest and dearest, and were perfectly willing to help it take a star turn or two. Witness the Group of 7 economic summit meeting held here in 1990. In a very steamy July. I’m sure Helmut Kohl never forgot it. And Barbara was just as important, if not more so, than George during that era. She stood in stark contrast to someone like the philanthropist and best-dressed hall of famer Lynn Wyatt, whose beauty and wealth seemed of another solar system. Mrs. Bush understood the uses of appearing ordinary — women here by that time liked her because she seemed “down to earth,” a phrase that meant she knew how to act like a normal person, even when married to the leader of the free world. And even when Mrs. Bush was a little brusque, who cared, as long as she showed up at your charity event, raising your social cachet into the stratosphere? In the last few years, things settled down quite a bit, as the Bushes’ lives contracted in the way of most people who live into their ninth and tenth decades. If Mrs. Bush could be haughty when approached for a photo in the grocery store (I give her a pass on that), she did actually show up at the grocery store on occasion. She and George frequented a Mexican chain called Molina’s Cantina and the Palm on good days. They ate Chinese on Christmas Day in the Galleria shopping mall. There were the occasional health scares that galvanized the populace thanks to constant breaking news updates on local channels, but eventually both George and Barbara became part of the landscape here, an expected presence, commonplace and exceptional at the same time. She’d been here so long we thought she’d be here forever.