This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Democrats have long been dreaming about turning Texas purple. The state’s rising Latino population, plus an influx of liberals and moderates into Texas’ big cities, would allow Democrats to win statewide races for the first time in decades. Or so goes the fantasy. Despite years of predictions and hopes, Democratic victories in Texas haven’t looked any closer to reality. In 2014, Wendy Davis was supposed to have a shot at winning the governor’s race. She lost by more than 20 percentage points. Why? White voters’ shift to the right has easily kept pace with demographic change, as David Byler of The Weekly Standard has suggested. This year has brought a new Democratic hope: Beto O’Rourke, a member of the House who’s trying to win Ted Cruz’s Senate seat. O’Rourke is, as my colleague Frank Bruni recently wrote, “a peppy, rangy, toothy progressive with ratios of folksiness to urbanity and irreverence to earnestness that might well have been cooked up in some political laboratory.” I keep hearing from people I know in Texas that O’Rourke is the real deal. I have remained skeptical — not of him personally but of his chances to win. Democrats haven’t only been losing major statewide races in Texas for more than a quarter century. They’ve been losing them big. There has yet to be a close call that suggests a purple Texas is more than a fantasy. But I will admit that a new poll, which came out yesterday, has caused me to question my own skepticism. The poll — conducted by Quinnipiac University, one of the country’s most rigorous pollsters — was the first major public poll of the campaign. And it showed Cruz with just a three-percentage lead, 47 percent to 44 percent, which is a giant warning sign for an incumbent. As Quinnipiac said, the race is “too close to call” at this stage. The main reason to take the poll seriously is that it’s consistent with other evidence indicating that Texans, like most Americans, are unhappy with President Trump. In 2016, he won the state by only 9 percentage points over Hillary Clinton, largely because he fared worse among college-educated white voters than previous Republicans had. Since then, his approval ratings have fallen, and his unpopularity is weighing on other Republicans. The main reason not to overreact to the poll is that it is only one poll, and polling is a difficult, inexact science. Maybe its sample was slightly off. Or maybe its estimates of who will vote were. At this point, though, there is a mountain of evidence that Trump’s unpopularity is going to make for some exciting campaigns in surprising places this year. Maybe, at long last, Texas will be one of those places. Elsewhere: On Twitter, the polling experts generally took the news seriously. Nate Silver of FiveThirtyEight wrote, “I think I’m on team Cruz-could-actually-lose.” G. Elliott Morris, soon to join The Economist, called the poll “pretty on target” with other data and gave O’Rourke roughly a 25 percent chance to win (which is significant, as I’ve argued before). Harry Enten of CNN wrote: “I’ve long been skeptical that Cruz is in major trouble. Get a few more polls like Q-Pac, and I’ll shake that ... but my prior is not for that close a race in TX. Then again, how many times have our priors been shaken these past 3 years?” Trump scandal update. The New Republic’s Emily Atkin tallies the multiple ethics lapses dogging Ryan Zinke, the secretary of the interior. “Zinke’s growing scandals look eerily similar to those surrounding Scott Pruitt, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency,” she argues. “But Zinke is vulnerable in ways his EPA counterpart is not.” That’s because, unlike Pruitt, Zinke has alienated some important political allies. Correction: In yesterday’s newsletter, I incorrectly implied that a few events — Richard Nixon’s visit to China and the signing of two arms-control treaties — happened after the Watergate break-in. They happened in the months before the break-in.