This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Baby on floor. In a first, Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois brought her 10-day-old baby into the Senate chamber yesterday, so Duckworth could cast a vote. “There weren’t even bathrooms for women at the U.S. Senate until 1992,” Patricia Zengerle of Reuters noted. Duckworth’s office tweeted: “Family-friendly workplace policies aren’t just a women’s issue, they are a common-sense economic issue.” And many mothers, like Dr. Esther Choo, took to social media to remember people who had been supportive — and not so supportive — when they brought their babies to work. Allowing babies into the workplace is one of these steps that seemed radical for so long and now seems like an obvious, necessary and decidedly modest step toward women’s equality. The deficit debate. The Washington Post’s Robert Samuelson did not like my latest column, “The Democrats Are the Party of Fiscal Responsibility.” He called it “a real hash” that came to “a partisan conclusion based on meager and selective evidence.” If you’re interested in the subject, I encourage you to read his piece and decide for yourself. Here’s what I consider to be the tell in his argument: In his rebuttal points, the most recent presidencies that he mentions are from the 1960s. (He chides John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson for increasing the deficit.) That means Samuelson neglects to mention all of the major pieces of federal policy passed in the last 50 years. One such law was Ronald Reagan’s 1981 tax cut, which increased the deficit. Two others were George W. Bush’s 2001 tax cut and 2003 Medicare drug plan — both of which increased the deficit. President Trump’s recent tax cut, of course, increased it too. Among the most significant Democratic laws of the last 50 years: Bill Clinton’s 1993 budget bill, which had deficit reduction as its central goal — and which passed without a single Republican vote. More recently, there was Obamacare. Like Bush’s Medicare expansion, it spent a lot of money to increase access to medical care. Unlike Bush’s plan, Obamacare included enough tax increases and spending cuts to reduce the deficit. These aren’t a random selection of laws. They are the top legislative priorities of recent presidents. And the pattern is pretty obvious: Republican presidents have pursued policies that increased the deficit. Democrats have emphasized deficit reduction, sometimes to the disappointment of their own base. Obviously, the complete story of the federal deficit has nuances. It involves decisions made by both parties and forces beyond their control, like economic downturns and foreign affairs. But to say that the story is nuanced is quite different than insisting on the unlikely conclusion that the parties are equally culpable. There is now a half-century’s worth of evidence to the contrary. Related: The budget expert and deficit hawk Ben Ritz did a more detailed analysis of the deficit that also took into account congressional control. His conclusion was that “Democrats have generally been the more fiscally responsible party since the Carter administration.” In The Times. Tom Edsall had an important column on the tensions around gentrification that are creating problems for the Democrats.