I met former first lady Barbara Bush about two decades ago. She had read my first book, “The Color of Water.” The book describes how my late mother, Ruth McBride Jordan, a white Jewish woman who was twice widowed to black men, raised 12 black children and sent them all to college. It led to an invitation to do a reading for the Barbara Bush Literacy Foundation and later a visit at her Houston home. When my mother and I got there, after passing through a Secret Service checkpoint, we knocked on the front door, fully expecting a butler of some type to answer. Instead, Mrs. Bush flung the door open herself. She was wearing a simple dress, pearls and comfortable shoes. She was beaming. She said: “Ruth! I’m so glad you made it!” They talked all afternoon, then spent the next day together. They had a lot in common. Between them, they’d raised 18 children. Mommy’s children were black. Mrs. Bush’s were not. Neither cared about that. They were, ultimately, mothers. I’ve thought a lot about that since Mrs. Bush died. About that common ground. And about where we all live now. I do not know enough about American politics to venture informed opinions about power, other than I wake up every day since the last presidential election feeling as if I’m living a nightmare. But Mrs. Bush was beyond politics. She represented a far greater power. She represented the power and grace of a mother’s love. Mother love is an unwieldy, cumbersome thing, hard to differentiate and quantify, yet powerful as the curve of an egg. It goes deeper than any political party. It is rooted in the idea of family and the underlying belief that here in America we can do better, ought to do better, should know more, strive for more, and most of all, love more. Mrs. Bush defined that feeling. She was, in a way, the great American woman we would all like to be. She was outspoken and honest. She said things that needed to be said, and occasionally things that ought not be. She carried the load, nursed the babies, drove the cars, prepared the food. She taught the children to walk, and when the children became adults, stood them up when they could no longer stand. Like any mother, she would take a bullet for those she loved — her husband, her children, her grandchildren. And like too many mothers, she suffered the immeasurable grief of losing a child when her 3-year-old daughter, Robin, died of leukemia. She and her husband, George Bush, were at Robin’s bedside when the child passed peacefully. “I never felt the presence of God more strongly than at that moment,” she wrote in her memoir. Like all mothers, she worked. After her husband graduated from Yale and left the Navy following World War II, the couple moved to Odessa, Tex., where George began his career as a warehouse sweeper and oil parts assemblyman. They lived in a tiny flat attached to a hothouse next door, with a shared bathroom. Her neighbors were not the “forgotten blue-collar working class” that the press likes to talk about these days, but rather oil workers and friends whom Mrs. Bush would recall with fondness the rest of her life: the Casselmans, Smitty the Oklahoma salesman who gulped bourbon from the bottle, the customers at Pinky Roden’s liquor store, and the oil company employee who gave her husband — a happy soul who dragged all sorts of characters back to their crowded house — a ride home in the back of his pickup truck on Christmas Eve after the company offered an open bar for its oil workers. “He dumped George in the yard and drove away,” she wrote. “It was a long time before I let George forget it.” During her husband’s eight years as vice president, she traveled 1,629 days, visited 50 states and 65 foreign countries and covered 1.3 million miles, which is 54 times around the world. She mothered her kids in every kind of living quarter imaginable — cheap inns, well-heeled mansions, hotel rooms, apartments and the back of a station wagon that she drove from Maine to Texas every year. She hosted 1,192 events at her house and 1,232 events in Washington. Yet she still answered her own front door. Her smile was genuine, her delight infectious. Mrs. Bush liked to laugh, and she could converse as easily with a Mexican mother of seven as she could with a head of state. It made no difference. She was a true Christian. My mother admired her. She was not without fault. Her public statements sometimes caused controversy. She recalled wearing sneakers to meet the prime minister of Greece. When she was a young bride-to-be and was called upon to cook for Mr. Bush’s younger brothers, her future mother-in-law bragged to Mrs. Bush’s mother that Barbara was a wonderful cook. Her mother, shocked, responded, “Oh?” Peanut butter and jelly was the actual menu. It didn’t matter. The menu was love, something Mrs. Bush learned from her own mother, whom she would lose in an auto accident after she married, unable to attend the funeral because she was living in California and very pregnant with her second child and, ironically, her own duties as a wife and mother prevented it. There was nothing to do. Family comes first. And what a family she raised. In the tight-knuckled, bare-fisted world of Washington politics, the Bushes proved over the years that they could hit as hard as anyone. Some did not like it. Still, you will not find a more loyal family. Republican, Democratic, black, white, Latino, North, South, Dixie, New England — you won’t have to look far down the Bush family line to find some of this, or that, or the other. They’re a real American family, flawed as all families are, shaped by a matriarch who understood, even as a young woman, that in all the ways of life, the importance of a mother’s love is paramount. It is the last line of reason and discourse in a planet gone seemingly mad. It is our last breath and greatest hope. Motherhood defines a society. Barbara Pierce Bush defined every single bit of it. In the last years of her life, she dragged her octogenarian body onto planes and buses and into cars from one end of the country to the other, raising money for her literacy foundation. She despised ignorance. She despised it because she knew it was wrong. And if you loved her and what she represented, you’ll go out and get a book. And you will read it. You will turn off that TV and pay attention. And cut the tweeting. And cut the Facebook chatter and all the other nonsense. And you will get busy doing what Barbara Bush spent a majority of her life doing. You will fight ignorance. You will learn to love. And in doing so, you will do what she did. You will change the world.