After Hillary Clinton’s loss to Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders’s strong showing in the primary, many in the Democratic Party are able to read the writing on the wall: They need to move left. But who wants to step in? Andrew Cuomo, the governor of New York. In the past two years, Mr. Cuomo — with an eye on national office — has rebranded himself from conservative insider to left-wing populist. Last year, he even held a news conference with Mr. Sanders to announce a “free college” plan. (The plan, unsurprisingly, turned out to be full of not-very-progressive loopholes.) The truth is, the governor wears his new identity like a cheap suit — stretched and baggy in all the wrong places. The good news is that despite his ambition, Mr. Cuomo probably has little chance of capturing a presidential nomination. But that doesn’t mean he doesn’t need a strong challenge from the left. If New York’s activists can keep Mr. Cuomo from striding onto the national stage in 2020 under a thin veneer of Bernie-ism, we can send the Democrats a message they need to hear. More immediately, we can help force the issues that matter to working-class New Yorkers into the center of the campaign. [Receive the day’s most urgent debates right in your inbox by subscribing to the Opinion Today newsletter.] Cynthia Nixon is doing just that. Last month, Ms. Nixon, a public school advocate and an actress best known for her role on “Sex and the City,” announced that she’s challenging Mr. Cuomo in this year’s primary. She’s campaigning on a platform that includes rent control, putting more money into public schools and ending mass incarceration. The left should support her. It’s an uncomfortable matchup for many of us. Do we really need to get behind a rich celebrity? I feel weird about it, too. But the answer is yes. For those who don’t track the soap operas of New York State politics, here’s a quick recap: Mr. Cuomo was elected in 2010. During his first term, he positioned himself as a centrist, impeding a New York City plan for free pre-K and pushing charter schools. In 2013, he distinguished himself by forming a commission to investigate corruption, then disbanding it when it seemed to get too close to him and his allies. His campaigns have been funded by donations from the real estate and finance industries. All this prompted a 2014 primary challenge from Zephyr Teachout, an Occupy activist and law professor who ran on an anti-corruption platform. Ms. Teachout took a remarkable third of the vote, but lost in part because her most natural ally, the Working Families Party, which often endorses left-wing challengers to establishment Democrats, was bullied by Mr. Cuomo out of supporting her. In Mr. Cuomo’s second term, progressives have enjoyed some successes. Last year, he signed legislation backed by the W.F.P. — part of the party’s compromise for backing him in 2014 — raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour. The teacher’s union and advocates have forced him to retreat on charter schools. But everything progressive that Mr. Cuomo has done, he was forced into by activists posing an electoral threat from his left. One of the people pushing him has been Cynthia Nixon. She has worked for years with the Alliance for Quality Education, a progressive public school advocacy group backed by the teacher’s union. She first got involved with the organization when Mayor Michael Bloomberg proposed cutting public school budgets in the early 2000s. She enjoyed her first political arrest outside City Hall in 2002 and has been an unflagging advocate of public education since, with a focus on combating segregation. She’s taking a similar approach to her campaign. Ms. Nixon declared her candidacy in Brownsville, one of Brooklyn’s poorest neighborhoods. She has called for legalizing marijuana, single-payer health care and, citing Mr. Sanders, raising taxes on the rich. Ms. Nixon has also built on the areas where the Sanders campaign fell short: She has made a point to address racism directly, especially when it comes to housing and educational disparities. She has talked about Mr. Cuomo’s sexism — he invented the bogus Women’s Equality Party during the last election but has refused to push for legislation that would guarantee New Yorkers the right to an abortion if Roe v. Wade is overturned. Ms. Nixon’s critics say that her appeal will be only in New York City, but there’s good reason to think she will find support elsewhere. In Brownsville, she cited “the tyranny of landlords.” That’s not just an issue in Brooklyn: Places like Syracuse face severe housing crises, and homelessness statewide has grown around 40 percent under Mr. Cuomo as of 2016. Similarly, while much of Ms. Nixon’s public education activism has been based in the city, the issue is a hot one across the state. This week, the Working Families Party endorsed Ms. Nixon, refusing to once again be bullied by the governor. That’s a great start. Every other progressive organization in the state should get behind her, too, from criminal justice advocates to labor unions. She faces an uphill battle against Mr. Cuomo’s $30 million in campaign funding, but she’s gaining in the polls. And Ms. Nixon’s is only one name on a slate of reformers, including the candidate for lieutenant governor, Jumaane Williams, a City Council member from Brooklyn with grass-roots support, who has government experience that Ms. Nixon lacks. Across the state, new left-wing candidates are standing up to save New York from Cuomo-style centrism. This is the kind of coalition that working people need to win more power, and it’s the kind of slate commentators always declare impossible — rural and urban, multiracial, feminist, unified against the influence of the 1 percent. Not only could it move the Statehouse to the left. It can show the rest of the country how to win.