There is a white tree outside my window, with a pretty black bird on it. I don’t know the name of the tree. What I do know is that in spring, it blooms. Or, at least it bloomed this year. A few hours after I admired it, a freezing, torrential downpour battered the newly flowered branches. A few days before, I woke up to discover not a white tree but a white world, as a springtime blizzard bore down on New York. Thankfully, between those two storms was a beautiful Saturday — a full 30 degrees warmer than the day that followed. My wife and I took our daughter to Prospect Park in Brooklyn for a kid’s birthday party, where we found the rest of our borough out in force. The three of us maneuvered between charity walkers and horseback riders, and the racing bicyclists who seemed intent on flattening anyone in their way. I soon learned that not far from where we were hanging out, David Buckel, a 60-year-old civil rights lawyer and environmentalist, had self-immolated earlier that same morning. He’d doused himself in fossil fuel to protest fossil fuel use, after leaving a suicide note nearby and emailing a copy to this newspaper. I was shocked, then saddened. Within a few hours of that harrowing suicide, the park had already moved on. The city, with the rest of the world, never stopped. At home I looked online to see how this man’s desperate act, taken with the express purpose of drawing attention, was being presented in our click-based media landscape. His tortured message was there, but it was already being drowned out by other news, particularly the deafening noise from the president’s porn star feud. It occurred to me that Mr. Buckel didn’t have the banner headlines because what he did was so un-American. I don’t mean in the patriotic sense. I mean in style and form. The extraordinarily painful way he took his life reminded me more of the Tibetans who have sacrificed their lives protesting Chinese rule. And then I read that Mr. Buckel had himself alluded to Tibetan monks in his note. How do Americans kill themselves when they want to get attention? Just look at gun-related massacre after massacre, in which legally armed monsters take the lives of innocents, ensuring they get every front page and top-of-the-hour story, before turning the guns on themselves. In Parkland, Fla., in Las Vegas, and on and on. And so their messages of nihilism, of pure evil, spread. Whatever underlying depression or personal issues drove David Buckel to do what he did, he, too, had a message. He wrote in his suicide note: “Most humans on the planet now breathe air made unhealthy by fossil fuels, and many die early deaths as a result — my early death by fossil fuel reflects what we are doing to ourselves.” And to share this message, he burned himself in Brooklyn. He did it early in the morning, when few would see, and no one would film it, limiting the AR-15-level attention that we give the very worst among us. Looking at the white tree, I can’t tell you how climate really affects my day-to-day life, beyond some canceled flights. A couple of years ago, however, I saw its ravages. In 2016, my family lived in Zomba, Malawi. Outside our window there was a green tree that, one morning, was suddenly covered with mangoes. For so many in the districts around Zomba that year, mango trees were a lifeline, the fruits boiled hard and green to keep the children from starving. Because that year had been climate change-dry, and the year before there were floods, and now there was hunger. Most people around Zomba don’t drive cars, or throw out plastic, or have refrigerators to run, even when there’s electricity to run them. What they do have is religion. And the most religious Christians I have ever met — so few of whom had access to quality education, to climate data or weather.com — told me without pause, or conflict with their deep faith, that global warming had destroyed their crops. They did not say it with anger toward me, an American, who lives in the place that generates the pollution that sends the bad weather their way. It was just a fact of life — and death. For them, climate change wasn’t a looming threat. It was a real emergency for them and their children, an emergency that seemed personally and deadly urgent to David Buckel, too, on a Saturday in Brooklyn, where the line at the ice cream shop ran around the block, and where our corner cafe was caught off guard by the sunshine so that the only shortage I heard about was of $5 iced coffees. Maybe David Buckel’s suicide didn’t reach our part of the park, and maybe the harvests of Zomba don’t concern a president whose food comes from McDonald’s. But if we can give our newspapers over to gun-toting maniacs for days on end, maybe we should make a little more room for this. Sad as Mr. Buckel’s death is, as uninspiring as it should be to others, if he set himself aflame to send a message, and it’s impossible to unburn him, and too late to direct his energies another way, the least we can do is spread the word.