Dear Roxane, Back in January, I emailed a group of friends asking if they planned to attend the Women’s March in New York City. A progressive black woman like myself replied: “Can’t make it. Completely swamped this weekend :(.” My first reaction was irritation. Are we going to look back at this moment in history and say, “We could have resisted but we were really swamped that weekend with brunch plans and deadlines?”  In the months since then, I’ve slowly realized, with considerable shame, that I am no better. I’ve been harboring equal measures of apathy since November 2016. I have what seem like good excuses: having a baby, illness and death in my family, a challenging job, etc., but the truth is, these mask my underlying condition of paralysis. I have made some weak attempts to engage (joining a call, buying a book, following the play-by-play of the Alabama special election) but nothing approximating real action. I have considered that I’m coping with the allostatic load of living as a black woman during what feels like a heightened moment of racism in the country by retreating, but I think that is only partly true. I continue to be outraged by this administration’s treatment of Latinos, Native Americans, Muslims, L.G.B.T. folks, women and so many others. But I’m struggling to summon a response. Do you have words of wisdom to help me understand and perhaps overcome my feelings of apathy? Signed, Apathetic idealist Dear Apathetic Idealist, I have no doubt that many people can relate to your letter. I can relate to it. It is difficult to balance activism and investing in the greater good with the demands of an ordinary life. It’s hard to know what to pay attention to and what to respond to and how. It is hard to bear the allostatic load of living as a black woman in a country where we continually have to assert our right to personhood. It is damn hard to expand the limits of our empathy when our emotional attention is already stretched too thin in a world run through with inequity, strife and suffering. Every day since the 2016 election there has been some terrible new story about the havoc wreaked by the current administration. It’s not just overwhelming, it is exhausting. And of course, President Trump is not the only problem, though he is, socio-politically, one of the most pressing and distressing. This week, I am thinking about 14-year-old Brennan Walker, who was shot at when he knocked on someone’s door in a Detroit suburb to ask for directions on his way to school. I am thinking about two men who were led out of a Starbucks in handcuffs because they were waiting for a friend while black. I am thinking about Saheed Vassell, mentally ill, black and killed by New York City police officers after reports he was wielding a gun; he wasn’t. I am still thinking about Stephon Clark, killed by the police in his grandparents’ backyard because the police thought he was holding a gun when he was holding his cellphone. I am thinking about devastating recent reporting on the role racism plays in black women’s maternal health. I am thinking about the legislation the president recently signed that purports to prevent sex trafficking. It also hurts sex workers’ ability to make a living and safely vet clients online, and is a thinly veiled form of censorship. The United States just bombed Syria, and Mr. Trump, with no sense of irony or recent history, declared, “Mission accomplished.” The head of the E.P.A. is spending money as if he is printing it in his basement, while pushing his agency to do the opposite of its mandate. The fired F.B.I. director, James Comey, said in a recent interview that Mr. Trump is “morally unfit” for the job, and Mr. Trump predictably replied by ranting about him on Twitter. Meanwhile, the Pittsburgh police are preparing for the protests they anticipate if Mr. Trump fires the special counsel, Robert Mueller. My point is, there is a lot going on in the world. There is a lot going on in my world. There is a lot going on in your world. This is the nature of life. We try to find ways to balance taking care of ourselves and our families, with caring about the world we live in and the greater good. Sometimes, we will fall short in one of these areas. Sometimes we will fall short in all of these areas. Most of the time, we do the best we can. I don’t have an easy answer for you, but I do think many of us get overwhelmed because we think we have to care about everything all the time, as if that’s even possible. We get mired in solipsism and delude ourselves into believing that the proverbial struggle cannot go on without us. This is rarely the case. The grand thing about collective effort is that we can generally trust that someone is out in the world, doing important social justice work when we are too tired or burned out to join in. Your friend didn’t go to the women’s march in New York this year, but hundreds of thousands of other people did. Every day, everywhere, people are doing the work of resisting oppression and tyranny in ways great and small. Lately, I’ve been doing two things to maintain my sanity without checking out completely. I’ve stopped watching cable news because the 24-hour news cycle has become an incoherent mess. There are plenty of ways to stay well informed without listening to lazy punditry and an endless regurgitation of only the most salacious news. I’ve also been trying to pick one issue at a time in which to invest my social-justice-oriented energy. If I focus on just one issue and apply genuine effort and attention to it, I just might contribute something useful. I choose to invest that energy in different ways, whether it’s writing about a pressing issue, amplifying the voices of others, donating money and time to nonprofit organizations, or whatever I can think of that might be useful. Sometimes, I have no idea how I can be useful, so I ask people who are well positioned to point me in the right direction because I recognize that I don’t have to have all the answers. What you describe in your letter is not apathy. You aren’t indifferent to the current state of the world. You are human, a woman trying to balance your own needs with doing good in the world, and right now, your own needs are winning out. Take the time you need. There is no shame in that so long as you remember to extend your empathy as far as you can when your emotional stores have replenished. I would worry if you didn’t care about the state of the world. I would worry if you didn’t ask this question.