I decided to stop smiling because I was tired. Tired of the “Can I get a smile?” and “Smile, it’s not that bad!” comments that are a too common part of city life. Tired of things like the “Smile! You look tired” demand from the T.S.A. agent who recently inspected my bag at the airport. My smiling boycott felt a little risky. It’s well known that women are often expected to smile to make others feel more comfortable. This expectation also seems like a big part of being American. When I travel abroad, delivering a grin and a chirpy “I’m great, how are you?” has seemed like unnecessarily cheerful bluster, even slightly deranged. Once, in Hong Kong, I smiled so much that the woman I was talking to recoiled and stepped away. My European and Latin American friends agree that Americans smile far more than people do in their home countries. Maybe it’s Americans’ access to orthodontics and cosmetic dentistry, a British friend suggested, bringing to mind the “Hollywood smile” of bleached and blinding-white teeth. The wide American smile is a relatively recent development: An analysis of high school yearbook photos revealed that smiles grew larger, toothier and more intense over the course of the 20th century. Smiling may be a universal sign of positivity, but there are cultural differences. American smiles are more assertive, reflecting Americans’ rating of themselves as more dominant. A University of California at Berkeley professor of psychology claims that American smiles emphasize the upper teeth while British smiles also show the lower teeth, which Americans often mistake as “deferential” or a “suppressed grimace.” A German friend told me she felt sorry for the actors on American television because they had to smile so much. It seemed exhausting to her, and a strain. (When Walmart opened stores in Germany, it had to scrap its requirement that employees smile because some customers had misread it as flirting.) Does America’s emphasis on smiling say something about a desire for happy endings, for appeasement and artifice? Or do we smile more as a way to cope with our troubles, as a source of comfort? A 2015 study concluded that people in Canada and the United States, countries with a long history of immigration, do smile more than those in other countries, as smiling is a form of nonverbal communication between those who don’t share a language. In The Journal of Nonverbal Behavior, a 2016 study found that cultures with a “low uncertainty avoidance,” in which the future is judged to be relatively unpredictable and social conditions are regarded as uncertain, view smiling too much as unintelligent. The more corrupt a society is, the more its citizens see smiling as suspicious. Smiling when you don’t feel like it has been proven to make you feel good by producing actual feelings of happiness. I’ve tried it, and it does work, but I don’t want to be ordered to smile. If a smile is the appearance of happiness, then to be commanded to smile takes away our right to our own feelings. We must appear happy, even if we’re not. A man told my friend to smile, for instance, on the day that she found out her father had died. Or maybe there’s just something about my neutral expression that comes across as seeming worried or displeased. People have asked if there was something wrong when I was feeling just fine. To compensate, I’ve found myself smiling forcefully when socializing with strangers, wanting to assure them that they don’t have to worry. That I’m O.K. Perhaps my annoyance at being told to smile depends on who is doing the asking, and why. Which leads to my experiment: I stopped smiling at people for a day and gauged reactions, including my own. I didn’t smile when I passed strangers in the office hallway. The clerk at the post office didn’t smile, so I didn’t feel bad about not smiling back. It was more difficult at the gym, where the front desk employees smiled and recited the same welcome and goodbye lines to members as they came and went. I wanted to smile at them, but instead, I pressed my mouth into a straight line. I felt as if I was being incredibly rude, as if I’d betrayed a social contract. Forcing myself to not smile, it turned out, was even harder than forcing myself to smile. “I’m trying not to smile,” I told a friend when I met her for dinner. But I was glad to see her, and couldn’t keep up the ruse for too long. On the subway ride home, where my fellow passengers were avoiding one another or nodding off, the only person smiling was a man watching a video on his phone. I held the elevator door open in my building for a woman with a baby carriage, and we squeezed into the narrow space together. We nodded hello as she spoke to her child in Spanish. It was the end of a long, cold day, the news headlines both depressing and alarming, and my neighbor met my eyes as we stifled yawns at the same time. For a moment I forgot about the experiment and it leapt out without thinking: I smiled. Not an obligatory smile, not a coerced one, but a moment of sincere connection. She smiled back. And I felt good.