There’s a pretty good case that Trump’s declaration that “Trade wars are good, and easy to win” will eventually go down in history as the economic equivalent of “We will be greeted as liberators.” One reason is the general economic proposition that trade wars make the world as a whole poorer, and while it’s possible that you can grab a bigger share of a smaller pie, you need a lot of that to end up a winner. Beyond that, however, Trump is even doing trade war wrong, by imposing tariffs on steel and other intermediate goods. It’s pretty obvious why this is a bad idea: it raises costs and hurts downstream industries. But I’m enough of an old international economics nerd that I wanted a specific model of how that happens. So what follows is a finger exercise (short fingers, I guess) – an itsy-bitsy teeny-weeny model of how protectionism on intermediate goods can reduce wages. The purpose is basically to scratch my own intellectual itch; most readers should probably stop here, because this is even more wonkish than my usual wonkishness. So, first things first: I’m talking about wages, not jobs. That’s because typical trade models don’t say that protectionism costs (or adds) jobs: it changes the mix of employment, not so much the total number. It’s true that, as a recent (and excellent) New York Fed analysis says, adjustment is costly, and the process of shifting workers around is likely to lead to considerable unemployment along the way. But adjustment costs and frictional unemployment, while important, aren’t central to understanding why Trump-style tariffs are a particularly bad idea. What is central, I think, is that doing this Trump-style turns even the sort-of-kind-of good arguments for tariffs on their head. So: a dirty little secret of standard trade theory is that big countries with substantial market power actually can gain from modest tariffs. The reason – the “optimum tariff” theory – is that by limiting their imports from the rest of the world, big countries with substantial market power can reduce the price of their imports relative to their exports, i.e., improve their terms of trade. This effect is large enough that for a country like the United States, the unilateral optimum tariff might be on the order of 30 percent. The trouble is that if other countries retaliate, much or all of the improvement in the terms of trade goes away, and what you’re left with is distorted incentives and lower productivity. This, according to one argument, is why we have international trade agreements. Each country has a unilateral incentive to impose tariffs, but if everyone does it – if we have a trade war – the world becomes poorer. So we need rules that keep that prospect in check. There’s a lively debate about whether this is really what trade agreements are about. In practice, nobody in the real world of trade negotiations talks at all about market power; it’s all about industry-level impacts. Nonetheless, there’s a school of thought (associated with Bagwell and Staiger) that acknowledges special interest politics but says that market power issues lurk in the background, and that taking those off the table with trade agreements is why such agreements seem to lead to less protectionism. I’m personally not totally convinced, but leave that aside today. Anyway, the whole market power argument generally starts with models in which countries trade in final goods, and tariffs are imposed on those goods. Yet much of world trade is now in intermediate goods, which are used as inputs in the production of other goods – and the Trump tariffs are focused on intermediates, especially steel. And even aside from the risk of retaliation, that’s a policy that will work out not necessarily to America’s advantage. Which brings me to my finger exercise. Imagine a world of two countries, Home and Foreign. (That’s an old-fashioned trade theory convention.) In both countries, labor is the only factor of production (not gonna get into income distribution today). There are two goods, cars and steel. Cars are a final good, sold to consumers; steel is an input into car production. I’m going to assume that both countries end up producing cars. To keep down on notation, I’m going to do some sneaky things with choice of units (another old trade theory tradition.) We assume that in each country building a car requires one unit of labor (which amounts to measuring labor in units of how much it takes to build a car.) We also assume, using the same trick, that building a car also requires one unit of steel. This leaves us with just two parameters to specify: the amount of labor it takes to make one unit of steel in each country. Call this a in Home and a* in Foreign (stars for Foreign is traditional.) And let’s assume that a* < a. That is, Foreign has a comparative advantage in steel production. Under free trade Home will import steel from Foreign. Let w and w* be the wage rates in the two countries, in any common unit. Then the cost of producing a car in Home will be w + w*a* (because we’re importing the steel) while the cost of producing a car in Foreign is w* + w*a* Since both countries will be producing cars, these costs will have to be equal, implying w = w*: wages will be the same. Now suppose Home imposes a tariff sufficiently high to induce car producers to use domestically produced steel instead. Now Home costs of car production are w + wa = w* + w*a* because car production costs must be equal. And this implies w/w* = (1+a*)/(1+a) <1 That is, to offset the higher costs imposed by the tariff, Home’s relative wage has to fall – the opposite of what you expect from a tariff on final goods. If you translate this partway back toward realism, this is saying that the direct negative effects of a steel tariff on downstream industries exceed any positive effects on the protected industry, even before you consider the effects of retaliation. Now, I’m sure that the White House carefully thought all this through before HA HA HA HA HA HA HA