This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. There’s a roiling debate about whether Democrats should move to the political center to win back Trump voters or focus on energizing the party’s progressive base. On some issues — like abortion, guns and immigration — Democrats really do face this difficult choice. The policies that excite progressives alienate many of the white working-class voters who swung the 2016 election to Donald Trump, and vice versa. But there is also one huge area where no such tradeoff exists: economic policy. On economic issues, the politics are really quite simple. The Democratic base and swing voters have remarkably similar preferences. And those preferences are quite progressive. On one issue after another, a majority of Americans want aggressive action to respond to the problems facing the middle class and poor: generous Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security; a higher minimum wage; more financial aid for college; and more federal action to create good-paying jobs. In my column this morning, I argue that this is a time for big, progressive policy ideas. I also talk about some of the work now being done to sketch out those ideas, because the details are important. If you’re interested in the topic, I recommend Annie Lowrey’s interview with Representative Ro Khanna in The Atlantic; Jamelle Bouie in Slate on the relationship between racism and ambitious economic ideas; Eric Levitz in New York magazine on a federal jobs guarantee; Gilad Edelman in Washington Monthly on antitrust policy; and Dylan Matthews in Vox on child poverty. North Korea. Kim Jong-un’s decision to suspend North Korea’s nuclear and missile testing might look like surrender; it isn’t, argues The Los Angeles Times’s Tracy Wilkinson. “Kim can afford to suspend tests because,” she writes, “his nuclear arsenal is complete — and capable, he claims, of attacking the United States.” Any summit with the United States now is likely to result in North Korea becoming “unofficially recognized as a nuclear power” — arguably Kim’s goal all along. In The Times, my newsroom colleague Amy Chozick engages in some candid self-criticism for her coverage of John Podesta’s emails, which Russia hacked to damage Hillary Clinton’s 2016 campaign. “It wasn’t a scoop. It was more like a bank heist,” she wrote in yesterday’s Sunday Review. The essay is adapted from her forthcoming book, “Chasing Hillary,” out Tuesday. This issue is much bigger than any one reporter. In a 2017 column, I also looked at the Podesta email coverage. I agree the media should have done better. It’s worth some reflection, because hacked emails and other information are likely to be a recurring problem.