NASHVILLE — It was a Facebook video post by Charles Esten, who plays Deacon Claybourne on the TV series “Nashville,” that got me. Esten is sitting in a leather chair in the middle of the show’s warehouse. The chair came from the set of Deacon’s house, and Esten has just bought it as a memento of the six seasons he has spent as a co-star on the show. “There’s a million other things down here. If you’re a fan of ‘Nashville,’ you can own a piece of it,” he says. “Come on down.” So I did. “Nashville” will begin airing its final eight episodes on June 7 on the Country Music Television channel. It began life on ABC in 2012 and was brought back from the dead, in true soap-opera style, by CMT after ABC canceled it two years ago. If every single item on every single set — furniture, art, knickknacks, everything — was now for sale in a giant warehouse off Brick Church Pike, I realized, a second resurrection was clearly not at hand. But maybe I would find some sort of memento there, too. The sale occupied two floors of the warehouse. I walked up to the door and stood still at the top of the ramp. “Holy cow,” I said out loud; a woman nearby looked up and commented, “That’s exactly what I said.” It wasn’t just each character’s favorite chair. It was hundreds and hundreds of chairs — armchairs, desk chairs, side chairs, church pews, bar stools and sofas. So many sofas. It wasn’t just tables and lamps — it was spotlights, chandeliers, lighted mirrors and bathroom sconces (plus the sinks, toilets and urinals). There were bowls, vases, candles and silk flowers. There were pool floaties in the shape of dragons, a life-size toy giraffe wearing a hat that said “Happy New Year” and, of course, speakers, turntables, amps, guitars and boxes and boxes of records. I started watching “Nashville” because a friend of mine, a set decorator long exiled in Los Angeles, wanted to come home, and he wondered whether working for the show might be a way to get back. I started watching as a sign of solidarity, but I kept watching even after my friend decided to stay in L.A. I watch despite having little interest in the country-music industry. I love old-school country — Loretta and Johnny and Waylon and Dolly — but I couldn’t name a single one of the big-hat artists who fill stadiums and travel in giant caravans of eighteen-wheelers and tour buses, the kind of singer that “Nashville” is largely about. The show offers exactly what you would expect of a nighttime soap opera: betrayal and bed-hopping and addiction and murder and drunken confessions and gauzy-edged flashbacks and a surprising number of car crashes for a show without a single main character in uniform. The plotlines are ripe for ridicule, and Ashley Spurgeon’s weekly recap of the show in The Nashville Scene is consistently one of the funniest things I read on the internet. “Nashville,” like the real Nashville, has homeless people, but the homeless people in “Nashville” are invariably brilliant singers on a bad-luck streak. “Nashville,” like the real Nashville, is populated by celebrities, but the celebrities in “Nashville” are constantly being mobbed by paparazzi, even though there are no paparazzi here, and we pride ourselves on not pestering our celebrities. The show is like a Christmas-newsletter version of life in Music City: It’s not entirely made up, but it’s far enough from the truth for the people who live here to wonder how such an exactingly reproduced version of the city we live in could be so unlike the city we live in. Still, I really do love this show, and haven’t missed a single episode. “Nashville” is worth an hour every week, if only for the songs. When it debuted, Emily Nussbaum wrote in The New Yorker, “For anyone who enjoys country music (if you have only nice things to say about the genre, come sit by me), the series has the added bonus of featuring live songs, sung in concert and in recording studios and occasionally at the Bluebird Cafe, a cozy (and real) joint where songwriters perform in the round.” “The real showstoppers on ‘Nashville,” wrote Jon Caramanica in this newspaper, are the “small songs, sung closely, in intimate rooms.” For me, one great attraction of “Nashville” is the way the imitation city in the television show highlights an identity crisis the real city is undergoing. We don’t live in the perfectly designed sets of the city on TV, but we aren’t the sleepy midsize city we used to be, either. We’re the “it” city, in an area growing by roughly 100 people a day, and we don’t really know who we are anymore. When I see someone grabbing Keith and Nicole for a selfie at the movie theater, I have to bite my tongue to keep from saying, “Honey, we don’t do that here.” Apparently we do that here nowadays. “In some ways it seems like this city is the best it’s ever been and the worst it’s ever been,” a friend of mine was saying the other day. “Not to get too ‘Tale of Two Cities’ about it.” I knew what he meant. We have never had a more vibrant arts community here, a more diverse population, a livelier food and entertainment scene or a higher per capita density of writers (song- and regular) — a density of writers that surely rivals Brooklyn’s. At the same time, our downtown is a garish, bedazzled strip of neon and rooftop bars, and our working-class and poor neighbors have nowhere to live as condos and McMansions spring up everywhere and out-of-town investors drive up the cost of smaller houses, hoping to cash out in the short-term-rental market. Don’t even get me started on the traffic. Neither the best of Nashville nor the worst of Nashville is what “Nashville” gives us, but watching the show we feel ourselves poised in the same kind of interstitial space: the gap between reality and imagination, between what we are and what we might yet become. For “Nashville,” as Loretta Lynn once sang, we’ve reached the beginning of the end; for the real Nashville, there are many choices still to make as the city grows and grows and grows. I left the “Nashville” warehouse sale with a coffee mug the cashier didn’t even charge me for. (“Let’s say 25 cents,” she said. “Oh, make it 10,” another woman threw out. “You know what? Just take it,” the cashier finally said.) The plain white mug isn’t emblazoned with the show’s logo or the stars’ likenesses, but it’s the size I especially like, and the handle fits my hand. And maybe an unadorned coffee cup is the perfect emblem for a show like “Nashville” anyway — a kind of miniature scrim for projection, a canvas for memory, or imagination, or whatever it is we think we want to be.