This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. There will be a ton of attention this year devoted to the feelings of America’s voters. But many more adult citizens in this country are likely to be nonvoters in this year’s crucial midterm elections than voters. In the 2014 midterm, after all, only about one out of every three eligible voters actually showed up at the polls. Yesterday, Suffolk University and USA Today released a fascinating poll of these likely nonvoters. “Every other poll conducted this election cycle will express the views of registered and likely voters,” the organizations explained. “This is a poll of everyone else.” No one can know exactly who will not vote, of course. The poll surely includes some people who will end up voting and excludes some who won’t. But based on demographic patterns and on what people say about their intentions, pollsters can get a good sense of someone’s likelihood of voting. So the broad patterns in the Suffolk/USA Today poll are meaningful. And here’s what the poll found: • Many nonvoters “say they have given up on the political parties and a system that they say is beyond reform and repair.” (Why? I think the stagnation of living standards is the main answer.) They also have a decidedly negative view of Donald Trump’s performance. • They say that the country’s most important problems include: political gridlock, the economy, health care, education and immigration. Those subjects were mentioned more frequently than guns, terrorism, taxes or Trump. • The nonvoters lean left in their political choices. If they were to vote for president, they would favor a Democratic candidate over Trump, 35 percent to 26 percent, with the remaining being undecided or choosing “third party” or “other.” More also reported voting for Hillary Clinton in 2016 than for Trump — even though, in retrospect, people often (incorrectly) recall having voted for the winner of a presidential election. • The respondents lean right in their self-described political philosophy. More than 29 percent call themselves conservative, 36 percent say moderate and 17 percent say liberal. This attitude seems to be more cultural than economic. Consider: About three-quarters of respondents say religion plays an important role in their lives — and about three-quarters say the federal government plays an important role. A final thought: There’s nothing inevitable about voting choices. One of the most consequential things that could happen in American politics would be finding a way to inspire even a small fraction of nonvoters to start voting. They don’t like the current president or the job he’s doing. Unfortunately, millions of them may not act on that belief. Thanks to Ariel Edwards-Levy of HuffPost for calling my attention to this poll. Today’s election. Arizona’s eighth congressional district — in the Phoenix suburbs — will hold a special election today. It’s to replace Trent Franks, a Republican congressman who resigned after reportedly pressuring two female employees to become a surrogate mother. It’s an overwhelmingly Republican district, which Trump won by 21 percentage points in 2016. But the Democrat, Hiral Tipirneni, has been doing well in the polls. The elections analyst G. Elliott Morris gives Tipirneni roughly a 25 percent chance of winning. As my colleague Michelle Goldberg reports from Phoenix, the close race is a testament to “the explosive activist energy, particularly among women, set off by the catastrophe of Trump’s election.”