For the first time in its 230 year history, the United States Senate has allowed a baby onto its floor during a vote. After their colleague, Senator Tammy Duckworth, Democrat of Illinois, became the first sitting senator to give birth while in office, senators unanimously passed a resolution last week ending the “baby ban” in the Senate and allowing any senator to bring a child younger than one year of age onto the floor during votes. The Friday front pages of The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal featured the image of Senator Duckworth carrying her 10-day-old daughter, Maile Pearl Bowlsbey, through the hallowed halls of the Capitol, on her way to vote against a NASA administrator’s nomination. It struck me that it was the first time I was seeing a lawmaker living and working like my mother. The picture above the fold of a beaming mom returning to work with her newborn tucked under her arm instantly returned me to my childhood, when I watched my mother go into labor at the business she ran, then come back with my newborn sister less than two weeks later. Senator Duckworth looked like my own working mother, whose stories of giving birth and raising children in and around the family business have become a part of our family’s lore. I grew up in the small businesses my parents owned and operated. My mom worked her final shift in the restaurant they managed together two days before I was due. After surviving a grueling, anesthesia-free 42 hours of labor (a number I am not allowed to forget), my mother returned home and within a month was back to work. Since she and my father worked at the restaurant that they owned together, they were able to trade off to keep both the business and their new baby thriving, swapping day shifts and nights with each other, one of them always tending to me while the other managed the restaurant. Paid leave was not really considered: In my mom’s case, the ability to continue to work, often with her newborn swaddled against her chest, was both a luxury and a necessity for keeping her family afloat. When she was pregnant again, seven years later with my sister Zoe, my parents had sold the restaurant and were building a small housecleaning business. I spent every day after school in their company headquarters, after the business finally outgrew the home office that also doubled as my childhood bedroom. I would study for spelling tests as their all-female staff bustled around me, returning for the day with totes full of cleaning supplies and dirtied rags, rolling industrial-strength vacuum cleaners past my makeshift desk. On my sister’s due date, I returned to the company office after school, disappointed my mother hadn’t had the new baby, thus ruining my chance to be dramatically pulled from my second-grade classroom. That afternoon I watched as my mother stood with her swollen stomach hanging over her desk, issuing instructions to the employees surrounding her. Every 15 minutes or so she would pause, clench her fists and Lamaze-breathe through contractions. I was thrilled, terrified and in awe, watching this league of women — most of them working mothers themselves. They stood around my mother, nodding and taking notes, waiting patiently for her instructions, knowing their boss would be out of commission for, well, the rest of the week at least. She eventually made it to the hospital, and after an easy, anesthesia-aided two-hour labor (there is a clear favorite in our sibling rivalry), my sister was born, and within two weeks she was nursing above that same desk. My mother’s workplace was newborn-friendly because she made it that way, for herself and her employees. Now senators, too, can enjoy a workplace that accommodates working mothers, and with an unprecedented number of women running for Congress (as of earlier this month, according to The Associated Press, 309 from the two major parties have filed papers to run for the House, and 29 will be on ballots in Senate races), the House of Representatives ought to follow their example. There are lots of conversations to be had about how, after these female candidates win, they can contribute to making life better for working mothers in this country. These range from how to improve family leave policies to why American mothers still don’t have the right to breast-feed at work. We can and should have these discussions. But last week, for me and my mother, it was just remarkable to see someone on the Senate floor that looked like our family once did. Maile reportedly slept through her history-making moment; it reminded me of the many stories I’d heard about when I myself had napped through a busy night at my family’s restaurant, as my mother worked to build my future.