A common refrain among conservatives is that black people should get over slavery. Even though conservatives refuse to. Last week, the Tennessee legislature withheld $250,000 from Memphis’s bicentennial celebration budget, punishing the majority-black city for removing three Confederate monuments. Memphis had circumvented a state law prohibiting the removal of historical monuments by selling the parks that held statues of Nathan Bedford Forrest, the first head of the Ku Klux Klan; Jefferson Davis, president of the Confederacy; and Capt. J. Harvey Mathes, a Confederate soldier, to a nonprofit that took the monuments down last year. The legislature’s move to rebuke Memphis for honoring the wishes of its people continues an ugly tradition of mostly white Southern state legislatures yanking power away from cities with multiracial or majority-black leadership or voters when those cities act in ways meant to benefit their minority residents. In 1917, the Georgia legislature established the county unit system, which operated until 1962 and allotted votes by county in primary elections instead of allowing the popular vote to decide those elections. So candidates could win the county unit vote without winning the popular vote. By 1960, the largely white rural counties, which made up only 32 percent of Georgia’s population, controlled 59 percent of the county unit vote. The county unit system helped perpetuate legal segregation by shrinking the voting power of urban counties. Last year, the mostly white Mississippi legislature enacted an anti-sanctuary law. It prohibits local governments and universities from passing laws or regulations that limit cooperation with immigration enforcement officers or the enforcement of immigration laws. This law was passed partly in response to an anti-profiling ordinance, passed by the city of Jackson’s majority-black City Council in 2010, that prohibited police officers from questioning people to figure out whether they’re in the country illegally. (Texas’ overwhelmingly white state legislature enacted a similar law last year, over heated protests from diverse and majority-Latino cities and localities.) North Carolina’s governor repealed the state’s “bathroom bill” in 2017. But thanks to the white Republican majority in the state legislature, the replacement legislation prevents localities from enacting their own laws protecting L.G.B.T. rights. The original bathroom bill was a rebuke of another law, ratified by the multiracial and heavily Democratic Charlotte City Council, that had prohibited discrimination against transgender people. State Republicans forced Charlotte to overturn that law as a condition of repealing the bathroom bill. And in late 2016, an all-white North Carolina state legislative caucus called a special session to attempt to nullify the governorship win of Roy Cooper, a Democrat, and the election of an African-American judge to the state Supreme Court. It’s telling that Charlotte didn’t get in trouble when it decided to give the Carolina Panthers nearly $90 million to finance a new stadium. And that Tennessee is O.K. with Memphis giving FedEx enormous tax breaks. The bigotry is obvious. And according to Tennessee’s legislature, that bigotry, as expressed by its desire to preserve statues of the president of the Confederacy and a Confederate general who served as the first grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan, overrides Memphians’ will. Memphis is a 63 percent black city whose citizens waged a grass-roots campaign to get rid of those statues and cheered when they came down. Tennessee lawmakers aren’t trying to preserve history. They’re just taking Memphis taxpayers’ money and punishing the local government for acknowledging the humanity of its black citizens. That echoes a sentiment from the people who put up the statues over a century ago: “The principles of the cause for which Forrest fought are not dead, and they will live as long as there is a drop of Anglo-Saxon blood on the face of the earth,” Senator Thomas Battle Turley said at the dedication of the Nathan Bedford Forrest statue in 1904. And what cause was that? “If we ain’t fightin’ to keep slavery,” Forrest reportedly said, “then what the hell are we fightin’ for?”