Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, President Trump’s personal physician and his pick to lead the Veterans Affairs Department, dropped out of the running Thursday morning, after being accused of inappropriately dispensing drugs, including the opioid Percocet, to others, and prescribing himself medication. In an interview with CNN, Senator Jon Tester of Montana said Dr. Jackson was known as the “candy man” inside the White House. Mr. Tester said a number of sources had told the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee that, on overseas trips, Dr. Jackson would “go down the aisle way of the airplane and say, ‘All right, who wants to go to sleep?’ And hand out the prescription drugs like they were candy.” Then, the senator continued, Dr. Jackson would “put them to sleep and then give them the drugs to wake them back up again.” If true, Dr. Jackson was apparently casually dispensing Ambien for sleep and Provigil for arousal, both of which are powerful controlled substances with a potential for addiction. For any physician, let alone one who treats the president of the United States (and Dr. Jackson has now treated two: Mr. Trump and Barack Obama), such behavior is unethical and dangerous. First of all, with the exception of the president, it’s a safe bet that the people receiving these medications were not Dr. Jackson’s patients. That would mean he was prescribing controlled drugs to people whose medical histories he knew nothing about. What if, for example, some of them had a substance abuse or alcohol problem or serious pulmonary diseases? For people with those conditions, Ambien, a potent hypnotic drug, can be quite harmful. And Provigil, a long-acting stimulant-like drug, can raise blood pressure and provoke anxiety and worse in people who are medically or psychiatrically vulnerable. Just as worrisome, Dr. Jackson would have had no idea whether any of the people he allegedly casually drugged were taking other medications that might interact adversely with what he was handing out. Can the president’s physician really be clueless of the fact that interactions between drugs are among the most common causes of iatrogenic (that is, accidentally doctor-induced) morbidity and mortality? I have reviewed many physicians whose treatments fall outside the bounds of accepted medical practice for New York State’s Office of Professional Medical Conduct. I can say that the “treatments” Dr. Jackson is accused of would almost certainly qualify for such review — and probably result in sanctions, from a fine up to the loss of a medical license. Beyond this, the claims raise important questions about the nature of V.I.P. treatment and, ultimately, what kind of medical care the president might receive from such a clinician. It’s been known for years that V.I.P.s — like politicians, celebrities and royalty — often get substandard care because their doctors are reluctant to ask them difficult or embarrassing questions that are critical to making an accurate diagnosis and to selecting the best treatment. Rules and guidelines that ensure competent care are often bent to avoid discomfiting V.I.P.s, compromising their treatment as a result. The deaths of Joan Rivers and Michael Jackson are often cited as examples of this problem. Given President Trump’s famous intolerance of criticism and prying into his personal life, he could be vulnerable to this shoddy if sycophantic treatment. Dr. Jackson certainly sounds like the kind of doctor who would very much like to please his patients. Indeed, Senator Tester said, “We were told time and time again the people above him he treated like gold, the people below him, he belittled, screamed at them, really created a very toxic environment to the point where the people who worked around him felt like they had to walk on eggshells because of his lack of respect for his job.” They say a doctor who treats himself has a fool for a patient, but a doctor who medicates his friends and colleagues is a dangerous charlatan. It was clear from the beginning that President Trump needed a new pick to run the V.A.; he might want to shop around for a new personal physician, too. This article has been updated to reflect the news. 