Dr. Rosenthal was an emergency room doctor before becoming a journalist. Ever since the American Hospital Association created its first Patient Bill of Rights in the early 1970s, medical centers, professional associations and states have been adapting it or creating their own. They are featured on websites and included in admissions packets, and adorn hospital walls. But most of these documents are relics, responding to the concerns of a bygone era, like the right to “understandable information concerning diagnosis, treatment and prognosis” and to “a smoke-free environment.” (Smoking has been forbidden in accredited hospitals for more than 25 years.) If the cost of treatment is mentioned at all, it often squeaks in at the bottom. Consider how Johns Hopkins puts it: The patient has the right to “ask for an estimate of hospital charges before care is provided.” Note: not to receive one. Today patients’ worries are financial as much as medical. Twenty percent of people with insurance say they have trouble paying their medical bills, a figure that rises to above 50 percent for the uninsured. In an era when patients are told to be better consumers of health care, they need a Financial Bill of Rights, too. Here are some suggestions for what it should include: Patients can’t detect and dispute improper charges if their bills involve dozens of pages of medical abbreviations. Studies have found that 30 percent to over 50 percent of hospital bills contain errors. I interviewed a parent whose bill included thousands for his newborn’s circumcision — even though his son was never circumcised. If a contractor charged you for a kitchen when he only renovated the bathroom, it would be fraud. When hospitals do the same it’s regarded as an honest mistake. I have seen the bill a patient got for a hip replacement in Belgium. It is easier for me to understand than an American bill even though it’s in Flemish. One New Jersey couple went to a hospital, a doctor and an anesthesiologist within their insurance network for the birth of their daughter. But when their newborn had trouble breathing, requiring a stint in intensive care, they discovered that the pediatricians there were not in any network, resulting in a surprise bill for $10,000. A number of states are passing laws to shield individuals from surprise charges. But the laws put the onus on the patient to dispute the bill. The providers can still attempt to collect, and they do so aggressively. Doctors must be clearly in-network or not. I had one gastroenterologist’s office tell me that she is in-network for a polyp removal but not for a routine colonoscopy, generally a far less lucrative procedure under current insurance rules. Doctors shouldn’t be able to cherry pick — they must be in-network for all the procedures they normally perform and on all days of the week they practice. If a provider is listed as in-network but is not, the insurer should take care of the charge. I buy my insurance policy for a year. If my doctor or insurer stops participating in my network within that year or in the midst of treating me for an acute disease, I should still be billed as an in-network patient. This would prevent a bait-and-switch: A patient goes to a physical therapy practice for a knee injury, for instance. The first sessions are in-network. Then that therapist leaves the network or the patient is scheduled with a different therapist who doesn’t participate, resulting in a $450 bill. Patients should know if their doctors own a financial stake in a testing or procedure facility before a test or procedure is ordered or scheduled. They should know if a hospital is paying its doctors according to how much revenue they generate or how much they bill, and be informed of any other mutually beneficial financial relationships. A procedure can come with different price tags depending on where it is performed. A Stanford faculty member I interviewed scheduled some minor hand surgery for a time that was convenient for her and her surgeon. On different days, the surgeon operated at different locations. She chose a day he worked at a hospital, so the facility fee was $11,000, and her co-pay was $2,200. If she’d chosen one of the days he worked at a surgery center, it would have cost her $2,000. These prices are often just a starting point for negotiations, after which insurers end up paying much less. But they still matter. About 40 percent of Americans have high-deductible plans that require them to pay more than $1,000 before insurers step in. And of course patients without insurance pay the full fare. “Informed consent” is a bedrock principle of health care. That should include financial liability as well as medical risk. Many doctors recommend the most expensive course of care and don’t tell patients that there are other options. One example: Instead of ordering months of thrice-a-week physical therapy after a hip replacement, hospitals should tell patients they can also do a few instructional sessions and then do the exercises at a gym. That is the norm in many countries, and researchers have found it works just as well. The threat of dealing with bill collectors and a damaged credit rating is used to intimidate patients into paying up without asking questions. A retired physician recently wrote a check for $5,000 to settle a $17,850 bill for his young adult daughter’s overpriced urine test, for fear that not settling would harm her credit rating. In any other business this would be regarded as extortion. I know these rights might seem like a fantasy in our current system, with its overwhelming complexity and cost. But they are actually quite similar to the rights we expect in any other sector of our economy. A month after I’ve paid for and taken a flight, I can’t be told that the pilot’s fee was not included. When I pick up bread and yogurt at the supermarket, I don’t have to guess what they might cost. Bill collectors don’t start harassing me when I’m disputing a charge on my Visa bill. When the product is our health and the bills are potentially bankrupting, don’t we deserve as much? Maybe, at the very least, it’s time to replace that “right to a smoke-free environment” with some of the above. Elisabeth Rosenthal, a former New York Times correspondent, is the editor in chief of Kaiser Health News and the author of “An American Sickness: How Healthcare Became Big Business and How You Can Take It Back.”