The bad men are plotting their comebacks. In recent days, Page Six reported that the former CBS anchor Charlie Rose, accused by employees of acts ranging from groping to walking around naked in their presence, is shopping a return to television. His new project? Interviewing other men felled by #MeToo. Mr. Rose isn’t alone: In the last few weeks, men like Tom Ashbrook, the public radio host accused of creating a hostile work environment; the former “Today” host Matt Lauer; the chef Mario Batali; and the comedian Louis C. K. have been said to be testing the waters. The response to many of the reports has been swift and incredulous. “Maybe don’t,” Jessica Goldstein wrote in a ThinkProgress piece on Mr. Lauer and others called “Men who pulled out their penises at work think people want to see more of them now.” “Perhaps these guys could just stay quietly at home for a few more months,” Anna Merlan wrote in a piece for Jezebel (where I previously worked). I get it. For the first time in history, it seems, powerful men are facing significant consequences for predatory behavior. For a small number — such as Bill Cosby, who was found guilty last week in the first post-#MeToo celebrity sex crimes trial — the road to justice seems obvious. But for a vast majority, it isn’t. Still, it feels appalling, unfair, even beside the point to turn to questions of what should happen to the #MeToo-ed men who aren’t headed to court. And yet we need to — not out of sympathy, but because as a journalist who has covered sexual violence for most of my career, I’ve seen what happens when we pretend that these guys can simply disappear once they’ve been pushed out. In my experience, they resurface elsewhere, often to prey on others. That’s especially true of men who aren’t famous enough to make headlines and whose career moves aren’t subjected to constant scrutiny. And so if we want the #MeToo movement to be about more than just which celebrity will be the next to fall, or whose comeback must be stopped — if we want it to lead to real, lasting and widespread cultural change — we need to talk. About what we do with the bad men. [Receive the day’s most urgent debates right in your inbox by subscribing to the Opinion Today newsletter.] Before #MeToo, there was the campus sexual assault movement. In 2011, college students fed up with schools mishandling sexual misconduct allegations began organizing around the federal gender equity law, Title IX. I covered this movement starting in 2012, and in the beginning it truly felt revolutionary. Campus activists, seeking an option somewhere between sending their assailants to prison and nothing, demanded the victim-centered alternatives to the criminal justice system that Title IX was meant to provide. These activists successfully scared their administrations into taking campus assault seriously: Finally, it seemed, universities were actually expelling students and getting rid of professors who were found responsible for misconduct instead of letting them off easy or simply ignoring complaints. But as the movement rolled on, I increasingly wondered what would happen to perpetrators once they were booted off campus. More and more students and faculty, it appeared, were being removed from school grounds, but no one was proposing solutions, at least not publicly, for where they should go. At first, it didn’t seem like a particularly pressing question: I agreed with the former college dean who told me in 2014 that a school’s ultimate responsibility was “to make a safe community for all students so they can learn.” The fates of those who committed assault or otherwise abused their power were nobody’s priority. But that didn’t mean students and professors vanished once exiled. Instead, I watched institution after institution simply “pass the trash” — a term for what happens when schools let reportedly abusive faculty flee elsewhere, without alerting their new employers to the allegations against them. Teachers quietly moved from high school to high school; professors covertly transferred colleges. I watched the same dynamics play out among students when I reported on a college admissions consultant who helped expelled young men put what she called their “best spin” on misconduct allegations so that they could go back to school, their new classmates none the wiser. Readers were horrified: one campus activist wrote a letter in response, describing the relief she felt when her own college assailant was expelled, how glad she was that he would not be able to harm her again. The activist concluded “my rapist is not my responsibility.” A more than fair point. But then whose responsibility is he? In 2014, I profiled some of the young men who had been kicked off campus for sexual misconduct, and found many had grown increasingly resentful and closed off to change. “At first I thought they didn’t want me to participate in campus activities,” one told me. “Then I thought they didn’t want me to graduate. Now they don’t want me to have a job or be part of society. Do they want me to commit suicide? Is that what they want me to do? What is the endgame?” I’ve thought a lot about these questions as #MeToo has unfolded, and especially these past few weeks as celebrities have floated the prospect of comebacks. Let me be clear: They’re doing it very wrong. Mr. Rose should be donating millions of dollars to domestic violence shelters, not planning a star-studded return to TV that leverages his transgressions to boost his career. But #MeToo is supposed to reckon with the misdeeds of all men, not just the rich and powerful. Bad men are not just on our TV screens, but in our classrooms, our workplaces, our friend circles, even our families. Where should they go if they’re fired from their jobs, expelled from their schools, kicked out of their homes or shunned by their communities? #MeToo is also supposed to reflect a spectrum of coercive behavior, not just crimes that should lead to prison sentences. Bill Cosby is one thing; but many women don’t want the V.P. of sales who got too handsy at the Christmas party to be banished forever, let alone go to prison. If they’re faced with what looks like no other option, will women be more likely to report him, or less? There’s a reason schools and companies opt to pass the trash: It’s by far the easiest option. Businesses get to say they’ve protected their workers or students (and evade liability in the process). And perhaps more important, it allows them to dodge very real and difficult questions: What do we want from abusers? Under what terms should they be allowed to return to normal life? Is there a way to explore possibilities of redemption that don’t put more of a burden on the people harmed in the first place? I don’t have answers to those questions. What I do have is a plea to take them seriously. Because to tell men to sit down, to stay quiet, to disappear — cathartic as it may be — is its own form of looking away, and it is likely to come at someone else’s expense. Two years ago, a TED Talk conducted by a woman named Thordis Elva and her rapist, a man named Tom Stranger, went viral. In it, Ms. Elva talked about her decision to contact Mr. Stranger nine years after he assaulted her. They spent eight years communicating by email, she said, and eventually met for a week in person, to focus on “reconciliation and forgiveness.” The two eventually wrote a book together based on their experience. The talk garnered almost 4.5 million views. Is this a solution? Of course not. It’s a TED Talk. We can’t require every rape survivor not just to talk with but also collaborate with her rapist. Yet the interest in their story is a testament to people’s hunger for a new approach. (The response is also a testament to how complicated this all is: When Ms. Elva and Mr. Stranger were booked to speak at an event in London last spring, they were met with protests by those who said it glamorized a rapist.) What Ms. Elva and Mr. Stranger engaged in was, in its own way, a warped form of restorative justice, a model developed by indigenous communities and embraced by groups who mistrust the criminal justice system. In restorative justice, victims, communities and wrongdoers together discuss the crime committed and what should be done to make amends. Restorative justice is complex and imperfect. It relies on perpetrators first to admit wrongdoing — facilitators aren’t always neutral parties — and it often requires victims to communicate with their assailants. But its emphasis is on repairing and preventing harm, not on indefinite, often ineffective punishment. As such, to me, it’s worth exploring. The dearth of alternatives to exile is a depressing testament to our inability to have a real conversation about what should happen to these men. But it is only by discussing the issue, not ignoring or dismissing it, that we can begin to come up with something better. Because the bad men are going to make their comebacks whether we like it or not. It’s up to us to determine what it looks like when they do.