This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. “We’ll not be having this on the floor of the Senate.” That’s Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, describing a bill meant to protect Robert Mueller from being fired by President Trump. McConnell has been forced to take this stand because — in a rare display of Republican independence from Trump — the Senate Judiciary Committee moved the bill forward yesterday. The vote was 14-7, with four of the 11 Republicans on the committee joining all 10 Democrats in support. “It’s not about Mr. Mueller, it’s not about Trump,” Senator Lindsey Graham, who cast one of the yes votes, said. “It’s about the rule of law.” And yet the bill will not pass — will not even get a vote — because of the obstinacy of McConnell. Or at least that’s the story that you may have read in virtually every media outlet yesterday. The full truth is a bit different. McConnell does not have the power to block a bill from being voted on. No senator does, not even the majority leader. Any senator can propose that a bill receive a vote. And if 51 senators want it to receive a vote, they can ensure that it does. Senate custom, however, has become that senators from both parties forfeit that power to the majority leader: The majority leader now decides what does and doesn’t get a vote. James Wallner, a senior fellow at the R Street Institute in Washington and a former Republican Senate staffer, gave me a history lesson yesterday about Senate procedure, and I think it’s an important one. The practice of yielding to the majority leader began in the late 1940s, Wallner explains. Lyndon Johnson took it to a new level as the Senate majority leader in the 1950s, persuading even committee chairmen from not putting bills forward for a vote. Senators have kept up the practice because it helps keep their party unified, rather than enduring votes that divide it. But this centralization of Senate power has an enormous downside. It makes bipartisan compromise harder to achieve. Coalitions that could pass a bill — but that don’t include the majority leader — don’t get the chance to form. As Wallner says, the practice makes our political system less freewheeling and open. “By stopping the legislative process before it starts,” he told me, “it makes compromise harder.” So when you read about McConnell preventing a vote on the bill that could protect the Russia investigation, go ahead and be angry at him. He is protecting his partisan interests — or at least he thinks he is — at the expense of the rule of law. But don’t blame only McConnell. Any senator can put forward a bill for a vote. Any 51 can make sure the bill gets a vote. The Senate has 47 Democrats, two independents and four Republicans who just voted for the bill on the Judiciary Committee. And 47 + 2 + 4 = 53. Guilty. Bill Cosby’s conviction “suggests that #MeToo could have already started to change how people think about sexual violence,” writes Vox’s Anna North. The conviction is, notes Jessica Valenti in The Guardian, “actually the first time we’re seeing just one of these men being held to criminal account.” Cosby was convicted of assaulting just one woman. If you’re interested in the stories of some of the dozens of women who say he assaulted them, I recommend Noreen Malone and Amanda Demme’s 2015 New York magazine cover story. In The Times, Deborah Tuerkheimer of Northwestern University, the editorial board, and culture critic Wesley Morris offer their perspectives. Reader feedback. I invited readers to tell me if I missed anything in my roundup of reader thoughts about which opinions are underrepresented in the mainstream media. One reader who wrote to me is Fred Hiatt, the editorial-page editor of The Washington Post. He said that his pages publish many of the voices that readers said they wanted to hear, including a socialist (Elizabeth Bruenig) and “conservatives who are most decidedly not uniformly anti-Trump and socially moderate, including Marc Thiessen, Gary Abernathy, Megan McArdle, Chris Buskirk, Ed Rogers, Mitch Daniels and Hugh Hewitt.”