LAS VEGAS — To those who thought ice hockey couldn’t work in the Nevada desert, you should see Las Vegas Boulevard. The oversize L.C.D. screens are flashing Golden Knights chants. Inside the Bellagio casino, a life-size chocolate sculpture of goalie Marc-Andre Fleury defends the counter of a patisserie. In front of the New York-New York replica skyline, the Statue of Liberty currently wears a 600-pound, 28-foot-long Golden Knights sweater. Las Vegas has embraced hockey, and with our stereotypical, extravagant flair. Our pregame shows feature surreal, Cirque du Soleil-style choreography. Elvises and Blue Man Group performers can be spotted rooting in our stands. Between periods, a futuristic-looking drum line, illuminated by LED gloves and goggles, thunders away on flashing, neon-yellow snares. We are Vegas, after all — we know our brand better than anyone. But beyond the loud crowds of the T-Mobile Arena, Golden Knights fever has permeated Las Vegas in less ostentatious ways. A year ago, an average weeknight at my local bar was just a smoky room full of strangers playing video poker machines and quietly watching sporting events from around the country. Now on Golden Knights game nights, that same bar is rowdy and boisterous and packed with neighbors in gray and gold jerseys. Yes, they still gamble and smoke, but when center William Karlsson lights it up with a sensational goal or the Knights need support, they swap high-fives, erupt in guttural cheers of “Go, Knights, go!” or both. Last week, when the Golden Knights swept the Los Angeles Kings in their first round Stanley Cup playoff series, half of my neighborhood was at that bar — people I had lived on the same street with for years but whose names I didn’t learn until we were side-by-side with the same Golden Knights helmet silk-screened onto our chests like a new, indestructible armor. Although Las Vegas has never had major professional sports teams, it has always been a sports town. In 1990, it was Runnin’ Rebel fever, when the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, men’s basketball team defeated Duke in the N.C.A.A. National Championship game. But to some people, it takes professional teams to legitimize a city. Historically, expansion teams perform poorly. But as this year’s Pacific Division Champions, the Golden Knights accomplished in their inaugural season what no other expansion team in any sport has done. To the outsider, the Golden Knights might seem like a first-time gambler on a heater. But to locals, the most poignant result of the team’s arrival is not their unlikely success but how their journey has been intimately tied to our city’s healing and catharsis. Just days before the Golden Knights’ first home-game opener, a gunman fortressed inside the Mandalay Bay hotel with nearly 50 weapons and 4,000 rounds of ammunition opened fire on the Route 91 Harvest Festival crowd, killing 58 concertgoers and wounding hundreds of others. Instead of introducing their team with standard Vegas-like theatrics, the Golden Knights comforted Las Vegans with a tribute to emergency medical workers. The players entered the rink paired with nurses, police officers, E.M.T.s and surgeons. The names of the 58 victims were projected onto the ice, and 58 seconds of silence was observed. In those moments, before the puck was dropped and any ice hockey was played, the Golden Knights forged their role as more than just another economy-fueling tourist attraction. They claimed a stake in our local community. From there, the Knights went on to win their first seven games. By February, they broke the N.H.L.’s record of wins by an expansion team. The city of Las Vegas extends far beyond the two-mile corporate glitz where T-Mobile Arena is, yet our identity is so often contained to the Strip. Getting the nation to acknowledge us as anything other than America’s favorite place to party has been an endless challenge. The Route 91 massacre seemed to awaken the country to the community of Las Vegas, a collection of diverse people with shared victories and disappointments. But the Golden Knights recognized this truth almost immediately. As the season progressed and the city moved forward, the team certainly catered to our big personality, but it also continued to acknowledge our often overlooked heart. Professional sports franchises helping their cities cope with tragedy is nothing new. After Sept. 11, the New York Yankees made it to the World Series. Had the Golden Knights never been displaced to the desert, Las Vegas’s grief and recovery still would have occurred, but on a much quieter, lonely scale. We would have pressed on, because surprisingly, Las Vegans are not strangers to loneliness or displacement: Three out of every four residents were not born here. Similarly, despite the team’s slogan, “Vegas Born,” the players for the Golden Knights were plucked from all around the country. The Golden Knights have offered residents a way to be rooted to one of the most transient cities in the world. For the small contingent that truly is “Vegas Born,” they have affirmed that being so is something to be proud of. But our new, shiny armor is certainly not indestructible. Explosions of fandom are always tied to success. Hard times will certainly come to the Golden Knights, whether it’s in the next round of the Stanley Cup playoffs or next season. But in our quintessentially Las Vegas style, we never ease into anything. We started our show with the entire bejeweled and bedazzled bandwagon. Who knows how long the ride will go? You might as well jump on it.