The second edition of “Our Bodies, Ourselves,” published in 1976 by Simon & Schuster, featured on Page 229 something I’d never seen before, and I don’t believe I’ve seen it anywhere else since: a photograph of a woman having an abortion. The caption, like the inclusion of the photograph itself, is matter-of-fact, informative and free from sentiment: “Vacuum suction abortion at Preterm Institute in Washington, D.C. Note that the woman getting the abortion is wearing her street clothing.” I first came across this photo several years ago, while doing research on radical feminist groups. Even in that context, it was arresting, perhaps because it was presented without fanfare. There was no sense that showing a woman having an abortion was, for a text on women’s health, anything other than par for the course. When I learned recently that “Our Bodies, Ourselves,” now in its ninth edition, would no longer be updated after September, I thought immediately of this image — and of the fact that it was not, after all, par for the course for any book. “Our Bodies, Ourselves” was originally a booklet titled “Women and Their Bodies: A Course,” self-published in 1970 by the Boston Women’s Health Collective. The collective had grown out of a sexual health workshop at a women’s liberation conference, and the booklet the members published was forthright and frankly political. The first essay, which begins with a quotation from the Frankfurt School philosopher Herbert Marcuse, is titled “Women, Medicine and Capitalism.” That final word is one that is rarely invoked even by many progressive health organizations nowadays, but for the authors of the early editions of “Our Bodies, Ourselves,” it was crucial: Political economy — and the recognition that physical health is inseparable from it — helped unlock these women’s understanding of their social and political circumstances, their relationships to medical professionals, and ultimately their own bodies. The insistence on a connection between politics and health remained a priority. In the 1976 edition, the chapter on women and health care included a discussion of “the capitalist theory of disease causation,” which detailed how the medical profession treated symptoms but failed to consider the social context of illness. It was an open challenge to established institutions and accredited actors: The authors questioned the benefits of a fee-for-service model of health care and discussed the power imbalances inherent in the doctor-patient relationship. One area of focus in the original edition was patient as victim; by the second edition, women were no longer characterized as victims of doctors — at least not so loudly. But they weren’t their equals, either. In the early editions, women were medical subjects, objects of study. Learning to challenge institutional knowledge, and their treatment by those institutions, was as important as learning about their own bodies. Knowledge had been denied to the book’s authors, these denials were themselves denied, and so the women who wrote “Our Bodies, Ourselves” were angry. Their anger radiated from the page: It was explicit, not implicit, and it guided the book from its opening sections. Today, we think of “Our Bodies, Ourselves” as primarily a book in which women can find candid discussions about masturbation or birth control, and it was indeed always that. But in those early editions, politics was given pride of place; the sections on anatomy and physiology appeared only later. In the second edition, the first chapter was titled “Our Changing Sense of Self.” Its subsections included “Changing Our Internalized Sexist Values,” “Rediscovering Activity” and “Rediscovering Anger.” I recently flipped through the most recent edition, published in 2011. As comprehensive as it was, I found myself missing the stridency of early versions. Marcuse is gone; in his place is the concrete medical information whose dissemination is, to judge by news coverage of its demise, the primary reason “Our Bodies, Ourselves” is so celebrated. Although much that was missing from earlier editions had found a way in — information on trans health, colorism — something of the soul of those early editions had been lost. In this most recent, and ultimately final, edition, the politics of women’s health was not elided, but it had been consolidated into its own section, toward the back of the book. “Our Bodies, Ourselves” is celebrated for making information about their own bodies accessible to millions of women. Such praise is deserved, its reputation earned — yet that ought not be the limit of its legacy. Its boldness and its value came not just from the information it contained, but the connections it made between our bodies and the world we inhabit. Much of today’s wellness rhetoric omits the argument “Our Bodies, Ourselves” placed front and center: that physical and economic health are not easily separated; that knowledge of our bodies demands knowledge of the social and political climate in which we live. There cannot be one without the other, and it is this lesson we must go on learning — if not from “Our Bodies, Ourselves,” then at least, I hope, from one another, and from the model provided to us by the book and its creators. As they wrote in the introduction to that first, self-published packet: “The papers in and of themselves are not very important. They should be viewed as a tool which stimulates discussion and action, which allows for new ideas and for change.” The material, they wrote, “has been and should be used in ways other than a course. A course is only one way of spreading the word.” A course is only one way; a book is another. May there be still more, and many.