I sometimes think I went to the wrong college. By many measures — most of them financial — my choice to attend Cornell was not the smartest one. I applied to only two colleges, the University of Florida and Cornell, because applying to college is an expensive process, and I didn’t know about fee waivers. What I did know was that thanks to my good grades and various state initiatives meant to entice students to stay in the state for college, I had an excellent financial aid package from the University of Florida: full tuition, room and board covered, the additional outside scholarships I’d earned going toward books and other expenses. I was about to be the first in my family to go to college, and it wouldn’t cost us a cent. Then, in April, I got into Cornell. I now know that the financial aid package was also strong, but it didn’t feel that way then: There was a subsidized loan of $4,000 a year in my name and an additional “expected family contribution.” If were I going to Cornell today, that contribution would have been zero, but this was before the school eliminated the parent contribution for families who made less than $60,000 a year. The question for us became: Did I need to go to the more expensive school? Would it make a real difference in my life? My parents had listened carefully to everything the school had said about what this education could mean for me. We intuited that it would be an investment in a future that we’d be foolish to pass up. We didn’t know what, exactly, we were investing in, only that the result of this investment was whoever I was going to be. There was no way to know whether it would make a real difference in my life. But what the expensive school seemed to be promising was more options. My parents remortgaged their home to cover what Cornell calculated they could afford. Because I used to work as a college-access counselor for other first-generation college students, every year around this time I get anxious for families trying to do this same math. I called my mom in Miami recently to ask her why, in the end, they’d agreed to let me turn down a free ride. “Don’t you remember?” she said. She reminded me of a Cornell recruitment event in Coral Gables, an affluent area in South Florida, held at the large home of a successful and proud alum. “Me and your father couldn’t sleep that night, we were talking, thinking, O.K., we’re two stupid people — not stupid, you know what I mean — and those people, they were just —” She trailed off, then added, “We wanted that for you, for you to have all that, be all that.” I asked her if she had found the event manipulative, and she said: “Of course it was! That’s how the world works!” I didn’t know that what we were deciding on was a kind of access and privilege that I didn’t yet understand. My parents, having worked trade jobs their whole lives, knew better. She asked me whether I thought I’d be where I am now if I’d made a different decision. I honestly don’t know. Where I am now is the Midwest, a newly tenured professor at a Big Ten school. My best friend from high school, who graduated second in our class and was supposed to be my Gator roommate, went to the University of Florida and loved it. She has a fulfilling career, rewarding friendships and a gorgeous house in a South Florida neighborhood we’d both always dreamed of living in: There is no “but” to alter these facts. At Cornell, I had a hallmate from Iowa whose family worked in pig ranching; the school she’d almost attended instead was the University of Iowa. She eventually chose to transfer back home. The way she put it, she realized she just didn’t need to be in upstate New York spending so much money for what she wanted to do with her future, though I’m sure there was more to it than that. The girls in my hall — myself included, all of us from the East Coast — teased her about her pig-ranching background, a fact of which I’m now very much ashamed. I don’t know why the University of Florida didn’t feel like the right place for me, but that feeling was strong enough to make me sign on for some major financial commitments at a school far from home at the ripe old age of 18 and head to a school that may not have been right for me either. I want to be clear here: I’m not trying to encourage people to take on debt. It would probably be even harder for me today to make the same decision I made in 1999, with the debt feeling even more insurmountable and new fears about what the job market would look like when I finished. But was it worth it? Did I need to go to the more expensive school? Here is my answer: When I started high school, my mother took me to an orthodontist. I had inherited my parents’ jacked-up teeth, and at the time when most of my friends were getting their braces removed, we were there potentially to start the whole ordeal, having waited until we were in a good enough financial position to do so. After poking around in my mouth and taking impressions of my teeth, the orthodontist declared that I did not need braces — my bite was mostly fine, so braces weren’t necessary and would be primarily for cosmetic reasons. Because we’d already identified ourselves as the kind of people who would need help affording orthodontics, the doctor thought this news would come as a relief to my mother. It did not: She started crying. “If she needed them, in my head that would make it easier to pay for it,” she said. “Everyone is getting braces. Someday they’ll all be people with straight teeth. I don’t want her to not have that.” She wanted to give me an advantage she never had, and this itself counted as a need — it had to. She knew that people might make assumptions about me based on something superficial. My braces came off my junior year of high school. I still sometimes wear my top retainer: I grind my teeth in my sleep, unconsciously undoing the work that made them straight. The bottom retainer no longer fits, thanks to a wisdom tooth I foolishly chose to leave in my head. It has all but pushed my bottom teeth back to where they started.