Last spring my dad sent my siblings and me a one-line email titled “Help, Please” that read, “Need you to get whatever you want from home by early May or give us go ahead to toss or give away.” A month later my sisters and I flew home to Cincinnati for the weekend to purge our childhood belongings, in anticipation of my parents’ downsizing. A rented dumpster greeted us in the driveway.  In 1984, my parents moved our family into the house where my three siblings and I grew up. When I was 10, I got my own room. I spent the next eight years in a room with a chartreuse rug that came with the house. All through high school I sat on the floor to do my homework and make collages from Seventeen and Us Weekly. I cut out listings from TV Guide and wrote in my diary about how much I loved “My So-Called Life.” I wrote notes to my friends and folded them in intricate ways. Twenty years ago, I graduated from high school and have not lived in Cincinnati since. Some of my old things were easy to get rid of. Tap shoes, 20-year-old socks, mangy stuffed animals, candy wrappers from 1992. Then there were all my school papers, from middle school on, organized in binders and spiral-bound notebooks. Pages and pages on Chaucer and ions and the Ming dynasty and isosceles triangles and “The Scarlet Letter,” with notes of encouragement from my teachers written in fancy cursive lettering in the margins. Going through it all brought me right back to my high school self and the things I was most focused on: my basketball team, the Spice Girls, designing the yearbook cover, Leonardo DiCaprio and River Phoenix, Absolut vodka and Clinique ads, quotes from the movie “The Cutting Edge.” My take-aways from a weekend visiting my former self? I was boy crazy.  I worked really hard in school. I yearned for a bigger, more exciting life. I was celebrity obsessed. I saved way too much stuff. I watched a ton of network TV. I cared that a teenage Ivanka Trump was on the cover of Seventeen magazine in 1997. My friend Andi came over and forced me to pitch it all. Together we carried garbage bags full of papers and junk to the dumpster. In the end I threw almost all of it away, but decided to photograph it first, because I couldn’t quite say goodbye forever. I saved a few things. My Girl Scout badges that were never sewn on, a Troll (from the time when Trolls were not voiced by Anna Kendrick and Justin Timberlake), a signed Andrew Shue photograph. Thinking back to high school, I remember being embarrassed and self-conscious. I disliked my body and desperately yearned for attention from boys in my class, though I didn’t receive any. But being forced to go through all of my things gave me a new appreciation for the other parts of who I was. In a girlie, lowbrow sort of way, I was preparing for life as a photographer — I was learning about imagery and portraiture and art and self-expression. I was hungry to experience the world beyond my room and its stained chartreuse rug.  Josephine Sittenfeld is a photographer in Providence, R.I., who teaches at the Rhode Island School of Design. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 