What is Op-Docs?  Op-Docs is the world’s premiere short documentary series. Begun by The New York Times Opinion section in 2011, it comprises more than 270 short, interactive and virtual reality documentaries. Each film is produced with wide creative latitude by both renowned and emerging independent filmmakers, and premieres across Times online platforms. The goal of each Op-Doc is to use a creative visual approach to present a story, an individual, an argument or a point of view — and to start a conversation among our global audience. Honors for Op-Docs include two Oscar nominations, seven Emmy nominations, two News and Documentary Emmy Awards, two Peabody Awards and official selections at top film festivals, including Sundance, the New York Film Festival, Telluride, Toronto and IDFA. Contributing filmmakers include Errol Morris, Laura Poitras, Alex Gibney, Casey Neistat, Lucy Walker, Roger Ross Williams, Heidi Ewing and Rachel Grady. Note that Op-Docs is part of the Opinion section, which is separate from the news department. While we value our established contributors, we very much encourage a diverse range of directors from all over the world, as well as first-time filmmakers, to make films for our series. What should I pitch?  The best way to pitch an Op-Doc idea is to explore our collection (as well as subscribe to the Op-Docs newsletter) and then pitch us something you think will be an excellent contribution to the series. We’re looking for films that are driven by the creative and journalistic interests of the filmmaker and that will also challenge the New York Times audience to see the world in new ways. Op-Docs spark conversations, tell memorable and astonishing stories, introduce powerful and unexpected individuals, make thought-provoking arguments and give viewers unforgettable cinematic experiences. Surprise us. What should I NOT pitch? Don’t pitch topics — the importance of a topic alone isn’t enough! Instead, pitch specific stories, people and filmmaking approaches. We’re looking for films rather than news pieces (even if there is sometimes overlap between the two). Does your documentary go beyond providing information to provide new levels, unexpected insight or a mind-altering creative approach? Political arguments and perspectives are welcome, but think twice about advocacy pieces that hew tightly to a particular party line or policy. Similarly, although the work of a renowned artist, musician or humanitarian may be important or interesting, please consider carefully whether a film about that person provides the story, conflict or emotion that will challenge and engage our audience. When should I pitch? Submissions are on a rolling basis, year-round (we do not have deadlines). To be notified of specials calls, funding opportunities or competitions, please subscribe to the Op-Docs newsletter. What kind of support and promotion do you offer to Op-Doc filmmakers? We offer unique reach and visibility for the film and deep audience engagement around a film’s topic. Upon publication, every Op-Doc appears on the Times website, mobile app and branded channels such as Facebook, Vimeo, YouTube and Snapchat, all of which have different (and overlapping) large audiences. Each Op-Doc is published with a written director’s statement and a filmmaker bio, and takes viewer comments. We offer prominent New York Times home page play, robust social media and email distribution, public-relations outreach and creative ways to engage readers. We work closely with filmmakers through the production process by providing detailed notes on their work, and manage award and festival submissions where relevant. We organize curated screenings of Op-Docs around the world. We have also built custom interactive presentation around projects that have high value for our audience. Examples include the Emmy winners A Short History of the Highrise and Notes on Blindness, and the Emmy-nominated project The Voter Suppression Trail. We will also organize callouts for audience contributions on important topics, such as with A Conversation on Race. What kind of funding do you provide? Most projects receive a modest stipend paid upon publication. For projects requiring more support, we sometimes have grants available. To help reduce costs, we execute all text, graphics, subtitles and credits at The New York Times and can also provide access to its archives and use of a music library. Our contracts are favorable to filmmakers seeking to repurpose their Op-Docs and the underlying material for other projects (such as expanding into a feature) — or simply looking to build a broader audience for their work. Can my submission be based on a feature-length project? Yes. We consider both new works and adaptations from longer projects (whether works-in-progress or completed films). However, we don’t publish excerpts, cut-downs or trailers. The Op-Doc must work as a companion piece or self-contained short film and must be worth watching even to an audience that has already seen the feature. Shorts related to features must also be published before the feature is on television, has a wide theatrical release or is available online. (See below.) Do you consider films that are already released? We require that each Op-Doc be an exclusive online premiere at nytimes.com (we ask for a 30-day exclusive and a joint copyright thereafter). We don’t accept films or shorts related to features or larger projects that have been publicly posted online, broadcast on television or released theatrically. We do consider projects that have played at festivals (and encourage further festival submissions after an Op-Doc publishes). Can you provide feedback on my film or pitch? Because of the large volume of submissions, we aren’t able to provide feedback on films that we don’t accept for publication. We do read and watch all submissions, and strive (though can’t guarantee) to respond in a timely fashion to all submissions. How long are Op-Docs? Op-Docs are typically five to 10 minutes, but we also consider longer projects (up to 40 minutes) and series. How do I submit a pitch? Most people submit pitches rather than completed short films. The ideal time to pitch us is at the rough-cut stage, but we are interested in hearing about projects in development as well. Pitches should not focus only on discussing the topic at hand but also on detailing the story, character and filmmaking approach — and how those will unfold on screen. Please submit here. What’s the next step? If your project is a good fit, we will follow up about your submission. (Please note it can be difficult to assess a project without a cut or representative footage.) We’ll then discuss editorial questions, funding possibilities, timeline, deliverables, contract, etc. Each project must undergo editorial review, including fact-checking, before we publish. Who can I contact with questions? You can reach out to opinion.video@nytimes.com.