When early voting begins today in the Georgia primary campaign for governor, Stacey Abrams, the former minority leader of the Georgia House of Representatives, may very well take a momentous step closer to becoming the first black woman in the nation to be elected governor. Ms. Abrams will have entered that office lifted by the political power of a multiracial coalition led by the Democratic Party’s most powerful voting bloc, black women. Ms. Abrams’s Georgia campaign represents the first time a statewide candidate is embracing the political hopes and dreams of black women — who make up a whopping 30 percent of the Democrats in the Georgia primary (held on May 22) — as the engine of its campaign. If successful, Ms. Abrams’s strategy and approach will establish a political precedent in the South and will subsequently offer Democrats a way to win in Republican strongholds in many parts of the country. From the beginning of the race, the state Democratic Party had its eyes fixed on winning white swing voters, including those who voted for Donald Trump in 2016. Some are arguing that white voters are the best way to close the roughly 215,000-vote gap that has kept Democrats out of the governor’s mansion for the last decade. Perhaps that’s the reason that party leaders recruited the millionaire Democrat Stacey Evans to run against Ms. Abrams. The Evans effort is focused on appealing to white voters as necessary and sufficient to win. Georgia Democrats have drawn from this playbook many times, including the failed candidacies of Michelle Nunn for Senate and Jason Carter’s own failure at a run for governor. The numbers and the history show the folly of that approach. By insisting on the strategy of appealing to white Republican and moderate voters, Democrats have lost over and over again with a population that is nearly a majority of people of color — specifically, voters of color who make up nearly half of the Democratic Party membership in Georgia and nationally. Even casual observations of these numbers and trends would indicate that Democrats do not need to persuade a single Trump voter to win. Stacey Abrams had the vision to see the value of voters that are more often than not ignored by both parties. They are young people, black people and other voters of color — all of whom are part of the 1.2 million eligible and unregistered voters in Georgia. Some 700,000 of those voters live outside the metropolitan Atlanta area. Ms. Abrams had the foresight to see those voters as an untapped electoral resource. In 2014, while serving in the leadership of the Georgia House, she founded the nonprofit New Georgia Project to register and talk to them. If we reach those voters, listen to them and register them, she argued, they will become deeply engaged in our democratic process. In other words, they will vote. Furthermore, with the emerging voters engaged, Democrats could establish and enact an agenda beyond Atlanta. Ms. Abrams has addressed issues of racial justice, economic inequality, L.G.B.T. rights and gender discrimination in an integrated platform. Her vision for “economic mobility” directly takes on the structural barriers keeping people in poverty. Also as part of her platform, she has advocated equal pay for women. For example, she’s proposing to provide state dollars to entrepreneurs to start local businesses, with a focus on rural and low-income communities. She advocates providing health care to the working poor by expanding Medicaid coverage as well as securing the Affordable Care Act in the state to benefit an additional half million people and create tens of thousands of jobs. It would also provide a stronger economic base in rural counties. Finally, it’s worth noting that she is boldly advocating access to obstetricians and gynecologists, is an abortion rights advocate and wants to attract medical personnel to underserved areas of the state. The Abrams campaign has also forged a connection with these voters on the ground: She has not poured millions into trivial television and radio ads but has instead stressed face-to-face meetings. Dozens of Ms. Abrams’s campaign staffers and volunteers have been on the ground for months knocking on doors, organizing community meetings and connecting with the voters. A recent poll shows the innovation is working: Ms. Abrams is leading Ms. Evans by 20 points. When President Barack Obama’s campaign used social media and online organizing as a central way to motivate and direct volunteers and build momentum, it was an innovation that changed electoral campaigning for good. Ms. Abrams’s innovation is no less impactful. The Abrams idea — that black women leading a multiracial bloc of voters will establish a new base — may also revolutionize American electoral politics. The math is clear: Black voters are a quarter of Democrats, and black women have the highest turnout. If Ms. Abrams advances from the Democratic primary to the general election for governor of Georgia, her multiracial base stands the best chance at turning Georgia blue.