This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Some of President Trump’s attacks on the justice system are well-known, like his firing of the F.B.I. director and his angry tweets about federal judges and the Russia investigation. But others have stopped getting much attention, because of how common they’ve become. Trump is treating the Justice Department in a way that no other recent president has. He is repeatedly trying to undermine the rule of law. Again and again, he has shown that he views the law as an instrument of power rather than justice. My column today tells the story of our modern rule of law — how it came to be in the post-Watergate period, thanks to two stellar attorneys general, and how Trump is threatening it now. I hope that the rest of us, and especially Trump’s fellow Republicans, will respond with the appropriate alarm and strength. On the same subject: The latest episode of the Lawfare Podcast is called “Preserving Justice Department Independence.” It’s based on a conference at Georgetown University last week on democratic norms. Here are a few other highlights from that conference: “The voices that speak out that seem lonely almost always end up being the ones we wish we had stood next to.” — Jon Meacham, biographer of George H.W. Bush. “The responsibility to preserve the pillars of our democracy falls to each and every one of us, and no one gets a pass because of their party affiliation.” — Sally Yates, deputy attorney general in the Obama administration.  “All presidents dislike us [journalists]. They just do. ... The difference in this particular era is that instead of just being cursed at, I’m also given completely, 100 percent inaccurate information.” — Carol Leonnig of The Washington Post, who’s covered the Bush, Obama and Trump administrations.  “Segments of the public begin to believe that judges really are just another politician in a black robe.” — Judge Paul Friedman of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, describing the potential effect of the president’s attacks on judges.  “This is unquestionably a dispiriting time. The story of American history, though, is that we repeatedly overcome such dispiriting moments.” — Meacham.