Gail Collins: Bret, whenever weird, crazy-making things happen over the weekend I’m comforted by the fact that at least I’ll be able to talk with you about them. First, President Trump’s speech in Michigan. Or rant, or whatever you call it when he ignores the script and just yells a lot. Trump went on and on about stopping immigration and building the wall. But then he veered off to assure the audience — which included a lot of farmers — that they would still be able to import cheap foreign labor to pick their crops. And then, naturally, when the frost comes, “they have to go out.” So there would be thousands of people crossing the border every spring, making their way to the upper Midwest, doing all the farm labor, and then packing up every fall and going back to Central America? I guess it’s the least he could offer given all the illegal immigrants he’s had working for his own projects. But still, what a hypocrite. Bret Stephens: It was a disgraceful performance, that rally. The innuendo about Senator Jon Tester of Montana (“I know things about the senator that I can say, too”). The usual slurs about the press. The crowd-size fixation. On immigration, it sounded like Trump was proposing something like the bracero program of the 1940s through the early 1960s, which allowed Mexicans who work on farms to come and go on a seasonal basis. It met U.S. needs for labor (the program started in World War II) and offered a regulated, safe way for Mexicans to come and go across the border. I wouldn’t be against a new bracero program if Mexican workers were treated fairly and if it were part of a package of reforms to make migration saner, better regulated, and less regulated. But that’s not where this administration is going. What Trump has in mind is the Eisenhower-era “Operation Wetback” of mass deportation. [Receive the day’s most urgent debates right in your inbox by subscribing to the Opinion Today newsletter.] Gail: I’m not a fan of a bracero reboot. But you’re right, there’s no point in discussing whether something would work in the context of sane immigration reform at this point. Bret: Speaking of speeches, the one that got the most attention recently was comedian Michelle Wolf’s barn burner at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner. She’s taking a lot of flak about it, but I think she’s funny and I can’t feel too sorry for Sarah Huckabee Sanders or Kellyanne Conway for finding themselves at the sharp end of her zingers. They represent a president who is twice as rude and only inadvertently funny. What do you think? Gail: I’ve never liked the idea of journalists and politicians getting together for a gala bash to celebrate their inner palship. Last weekend’s event was the worst possible mix: an absent president who makes his career out of claiming the media is biased and a big chunk of the Washington press corps laughing (sort of) while a comic makes raucous jokes about him and the people who work for him. I appreciate Wolf’s talent but given the context, the whole thing was just cringe-worthy. Except the Showtime cartoon about what it would have been like if Trump did come. Fun skewering of all sides and an excellent picture of you, BTW. Bret: Someone sent me the reel. I cringed! Gail: Let’s talk about something less stressful. We converse a lot about our deep-seated convictions. Bret, are there some things you believe in, but just can’t get all that exercised about? I did a column last week about Paul Ryan firing the House of Representatives chaplain, which I saw as another lesson in the overall awfulness of our current speaker. But a number of readers wrote to argue that there actually shouldn’t be a chaplain to begin with, that the idea of employing a priest or minister or rabbi to lead Congress in prayer was unconstitutional. And I have to admit that when I was writing the thought definitely crossed my mind — this is an institution we could do without. Then I sort of mentally shrugged and moved on. How about you? Bret Stephens: I agree with you in questioning the necessity for — and with your readers in doubting the constitutionality of — that congressional chaplaincy. Just another case of big government run amok. While we’re at it, can we also get rid of the Department of Commerce in toto, and maybe a good chunk of the Department of Agriculture? Also, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms could lose its first two missions. But I’m getting carried away. As for things I care about — but not too much — I can think of a few. I think the International Space Station is a colossal waste of money but, hey, it’s sorta cool. I think it’s ludicrous that the military is so heavily invested in football games, but whatever. And, closer to home, I think bikes are becoming a danger to drivers and pedestrians alike in New York City, but I’m not going to spend a column on it. At least until I’m involved in a collision. Gail: Ah, yes, the bike wars. I never went there either. I find that I back away even from issues I’m passionate about when someone suggests amending the Constitution. I envision a long, impossible slog like the heartbreaking one we had with the Equal Rights Amendment in the 1970s and ’80s. I just don’t believe that in our current political era, you can ever get 38 state legislatures to agree on anything more difficult than National Good Neighbor Day. There’s a new E.R.A. movement underway now and it makes me so sad to say I think it’s a waste of time. Are you still ready to crusade to get rid of the Second Amendment? Bret: Yes, and you ought to join me in it. Gail: Repealing the Second Amendment is totally impossible and talking about it just gives the N.R.A. another paranoia point to exploit. I say focus on the reforms that could actually happen. Like banning assault rifles. Tightening background checks. Bret: I’m a believer in advocating supposedly impossible ideas, at least editorially. If not us, with the fantastic freedom and reach that The Times gives us as columnists, then who? Anyway, it’s not as if the N.R.A. will ever lack for paranoid fantasies about the deep state coming for their guns. So, if nothing else, starting a serious movement to repeal the Second Amendment might scare them into accepting the kind of sensible restrictions you advocate. Gail: Instead of giving the N.R.A., um, ammunition to claim we’re out to take away every hunting rifle, I’d rather demand they defend teenage gun purchases and their “open carry” Eden in which every Applebee’s patron is packing heat. But let me stop for a minute and say that this discussion does have me rethinking the chaplain column. I really should have pointed out that it’s crazy for the government to hire a member of the clergy to lead Congress in prayer. Unless somebody repealed the First Amendment while I was distracted. Bret: I used to think that the left was a little strident in demanding strict separation of church and state. But my views have changed as I’ve watched the Republican Party constantly try to inject Christianity into everyday political life. Being Jewish probably has something to do with that. And, in truth, many of the founders were lukewarm theists with deep distrust of religious dogma. Thomas Jefferson wrote his own version of the New Testament and got rid of all the miracles. Anyway, we don’t need a House chaplain so that Paul Ryan can fire him on his own way out the door. And speaking of the House: What’s your wager on it flipping in November? Gail: Oh, wow, are you taking bets? If you take the Republicans holding on, I’ll give you 5-1. No, 10-1. Bret: Not a bet I’m going to take, considering Republicans could barely hold on to Trent Franks’s seat in Arizona last week. Gail: The Republicans really thought they could ride to re-election on those tax cuts. But the public is mainly just sort of shrugging. Which takes us back to that House chaplain — he got in trouble for praying that the tax bill would be fair to everybody. If there’s really Republican rancor at the guy, it’s because they’re now so sensitive to the fact that they slashed government revenues, blew up the deficit — and average voters understand they’re not getting much out of it. Bret: It will be impossible to prove, but I suspect the Republicans will still get some benefit out of the tax bill, in the sense that it would have been that much worse for them electorally if they had failed to pass it and further turned off their own base as a result. Gail: Oh, the base. Do you think we could invite the base to lunch, or out for a drink, to see if we could encourage the base to chill a little? Bret: Yeah, but only for light beer. Where I agree with you is that the tax bill sure wasn’t the wonder drug Paul Ryan kept promising it would be. Economic growth is down somewhat this quarter and the Dow is pretty much where it began the year, though that’s arguably due to Trump’s attempt to start a trade war. Cuts in personal rates were modest, so people aren’t coming out of tax season feeling richer and more grateful. And though I think it was smart to slash corporate tax rates, the benefits are fairly abstract from the voters’ point of view. I have to say, I won’t mind at all seeing Democrats take the House. Republicans made their proverbial bed with Trump and now they’ll get to lie in it. And a wave election for Democrats may be the only way to encourage a primary or third-party challenge to Trump in 2020, which is where I’m pinning most of my political hopes these days. Gail: Wow, we haven’t talked about your 2020 dreams. Anybody in particular you have in mind? If you mention Mitt Romney I get to bring up his dog. Bret: Let’s just leave the dog on the car roof, shall we? Among Republicans, I would love to see John Kasich, Ben Sasse or Nikki Haley challenge Trump in the primary. I think they’ve acquitted themselves pretty well, and Haley has proved herself the only member of Trump’s cabinet with the right combination of moral sense and spine. I’d also be happy with more than a few Democrats, especially those from purple states. Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado and Senator Michael Bennet, also of Colorado, both come to mind. (Yes, the senator is our boss James Bennet’s brother; no, I’m not angling for a raise.) I also don’t think we should rule out a credible third-party bid from an independently wealthy, center-of-the-road figure. You know, maybe a three-term former big city mayor, not that I want to name names. That’s especially if Republicans renominate Trump and Democrats go for someone in the Bernie Sanders mold. A third-party challenger who takes New York, New Jersey and perhaps Florida could throw the election to the House and lead to the revival of centrist politics in the United States, which I’ve missed a lot. Have I mentioned how much George H. W. Bush has grown in my esteem lately? Gail: I have a distinct memory of H. W. taking a lot of heat for his decision not to invade Iraq after kicking Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait. If his kid had followed Dad’s example, imagine what a happy place we might be living in now. So yeah, on H. W. I am in your corner. I don’t think we’ve ever talked about third parties but now I’m looking forward to that conversation, in which I will yell about how people who vote for third-party candidates are just trying to make themselves feel virtuous while dodging the actual, critical decision. But for now, we’re in accord. Once again, our president demonstrates that he really does have the ability to bring people together. True, it’s in shock and horror. But nobody’s perfect.