At any given moment across a beach in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., cruise ships speckle the horizon, their gargantuan bodies reduced to dots in the distance. I grew up near this beach, and most of the people I knew growing up had been on cruises. They would go away for a week or a weekend, drawn by the promise of escape, and return to land with bad sunburns, stories of small adventures and a few extra pounds. For these people, cruising was an occasional vacation. For Mario Salcedo, the subject of this Op-Doc, it’s his everyday life. I first learned about Mario through my grandparents, both of whom are avid cruisers. As several of their senior friends began to spend more time on cruises than on land, my grandparents became aware of an elite cabal of sorts within the cruising subculture: passengers scattered across different cruise lines who choose to live at sea permanently. One such passenger was Mario Salcedo, or “Super Mario” as the crew of the Enchantment of the Seas affectionately calls him. For the past two decades, Mario has been a full-time resident on Royal Caribbean Cruises, accumulating over 7,300 nights at sea. Having fostered an interest in making films that explore the transformation of nontraditional places and spaces into homes, I was immediately intrigued by Mario’s world. After doing some preliminary research, I quickly discovered that I was not alone. From USA Today, to Condé Nast, to even this publication, reporters have taken a look at life at sea through Mario’s eyes. But I wanted to experience what it was like firsthand, and to document it through film. For nearly two decades, Mario had been living out of his suitcase, traveling extensively for his corporate job as the director of international finance at a multinational corporation. He spent more time in and out of hotel rooms scattered across Latin America than he did at his home in Miami. After working nonstop for nearly 21 years, Mario — burned out — decided it was time to pursue a lifelong goal: to travel around the world, without leaving home. In 1997, he quit his job, packed an even bigger suitcase and quietly disappeared from the lives of his friends and family to pursue a new life on the open water. This past August, a film crew of me and four others joined Mario for five days on the Enchantment of the Seas. As we soon discovered, Mario lives a far different life from the one portrayed by both himself — as an unofficial public ambassador for Royal Caribbean — and the press. The Mario we followed was not living the fantastical dream life of a “cruising king,” as I’d seen him described. The Mario we found lives a life full of paradoxes: while he proclaims his independence from others, he surrounds himself with throngs of anonymous tourists, shaking hands and selling his lifestyle. I was determined to crack through what I perceived to be a facade. But as I floated dreamily across a sea of professional smiles with Mario, I realized that his facade had taken on a reality of its own, that his ongoing voyages to nowhere — and everywhere — provided an overwhelming sense of freedom perhaps not found on land. It is in that freedom that Mario has finally found his home.