When the National Labor Relations Act was passed in 1935, it was one of the most radical pieces of legislation in American history. It established an agency, the National Labor Relations Board, that encouraged workers to unionize in order to lift Depression-era wages and thus give Americans more money to spend, in the hope of stimulating the economy. The board had a secret weapon: its Division of Economic Research. The division included labor economists and social scientists who gathered evidence to defend the new labor law from constitutional challenges in hostile courts. With success came heightened scrutiny. In Congress, the Smith Committee looked for ways during the Red Scare era to weaken the National Labor Relations Act, including purging the board of “radical views.” The committee went after its chief economist, David Saposs, calling him a Communist with a “strangely exaggerated social consciousness.” Congress cut the division’s funding, effectively ending its work, and in 1947 it barred the board from hiring experts in economic analysis. This misguided ban should be lifted. An agency with the critical task of restoring equal bargaining power between employers and employees — at a time of high economic inequality, anemic union membership rates, and widespread labor market concentration — is having to do so without any dedicated economic expertise. Other agencies — like the Environmental Protection Agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Securities and Exchange Commission — use macroeconomic modeling, behavioral science and other tools to understand the impact of their regulations. While the priorities of these agencies may still be shaped by political appointees, these efforts make regulations smarter and sometimes lead to breakthroughs in research. In contrast, the labor board has been unable to effectively defend itself when its rules are challenged. In 2011, business groups challenged a rule requiring employers to display posters telling workers of their right to form a union. When the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit struck down the rule, Judge Karen Henderson castigated the board for its “speculative assertions” that the rule was necessary: The board used three law review articles, which are not peer-reviewed, to support its claims, a foundation that neither social scientists nor other enforcement agencies would rely on. The labor board will never be wholly independent of politics. But a revivified Division of Economic Research could function in a way that’s similar to the Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics, by grounding the agency’s policies and labor law decisions on data and analysis that would be part of the public record. The labor board could use such expertise right now on the question of when a company has enough “indirect control” over another company’s workers to be treated as a “joint employer.” In the Obama administration, the board adopted a more expansive indirect control standard, which was overruled by the board appointed by President Trump. That decision was then vacated because of a conflict of interest. A permanent economic research team could discourage such partisan whipsawing by helping to draft rules and giving guidance in cases before the board. A new Division of Economic Research could help adapt policymaking to workplaces that have been transformed since the 1930s. It could study how outsourcing and the on-demand, app-based economy have affected workers. It could assist the board in setting enforcement priorities, ranking cases by the overall harm caused to workers. It could organize decades’ worth of data to assess which employers in which industries have artificially suppressed wages and which workers most need the board’s protection. For example, the board has already collected an immense amount of data about fast-food franchising, and reliable analysis of that data could be crucial to rulings in that area. Finally, economic analysis could improve the effectiveness of the board itself. The board could ask its economists to score the relative economic impact of its cases according to metrics such as union membership rates. Developing the board’s expertise would also fortify its ability to achieve the ambitious goals that were part of the agency’s original mission: lifting depressed wages and increasing workers’ purchasing power. For example, it could assess how rules that broaden the definition of “employees,” who are protected by the National Labor Relations Act, or narrow the definition of “independent contractors,” who are not, affect the relative wages and benefits of workers in the same labor market, at the same company or in the same industry. If the Trump administration is serious about its promises to help American workers, it should encourage Congress to repeal the ban on economists and social scientists.