In a recent Sunday Review essay, Katie J.M. Baker, an investigative reporter, explored the question of what to do with men who have been taken down by the #MeToo movement. In the comments section, readers offered nuanced suggestions about what responsible reintegration could look like. Below are some of those comments, edited for length and clarity.  The men should volunteer their time helping abuse victims If the men stage a “comeback” by volunteering full time for victims of abuse, I say go for it. I suggest four months of self-imposed charity work for each victim a man abused. Clean dishes at a soup kitchen, wash clothes at a homeless shelter, visit nursing homes to sit and talk with residents, answer phones at one of the charities that help victims. Be humble, be giving, be good. That sort of comeback would impress me. Anything else demonstrates the insincerity of the apology. — Kristine As a survivor of sexual abuse, I have to live with the consequences for the rest of my life. There’s no “comeback” for me. Maybe these men could take some time to reflect on the impact of their actions, demonstrate actual empathy for their victims, and devote their time, energy and money toward organizations that provide legal and emotional support to sexual abuse and assault survivors. — Survivor Women don’t want a discussion  The problem that I’m having is that the range of behaviors that earn men the designation “bad men” seems vast. But I’m convinced that men cannot discuss this matter with women. The issues are just too explosive. Women don’t want a discussion, and from what I’ve observed, there is no way for a man who tries to talk to come out of a discussion intact. We just have to shut up and listen, not speak in defense of any of the perpetrators, not mansplain, and let society sort things out. For the older of us, it won’t be sorted out in our lifetimes. We’ll die fools. — 17Airborne Send them to mandatory ‘detox’ There is an old term that really ought to be renewed: consciousness-raising. What if predators go to classes, set up a bit like Alcoholics Anonymous, in which they learn that women are not subhuman life-forms and prey? It would be like court-ordered rehab combined with “How to Be a Gentleman” classes. Said class would cost them money, which would be used to pay the therapist and fund age-appropriate consciousness raising classes. Every time the men backslid, back to class they’d go. — Jackie Look to restorative justice We can quickly label someone a predator and expel him from school or the workplace, but that expulsion does nothing to build emotional intelligence about sexual encounters. Instead, we have created a class of young men who rightly wonder if their next step should be self-destruction. Outside the United States, schools and states use restorative justice to reintegrate these so-called bad men back into the community. Victims are given the space to describe the harm they endured and to consider possible solutions. Perpetrators are given an opportunity to think through their actions. The premise of restorative justice is that people can learn through their mistakes. Unfortunately, in the United States, we have been seduced by the gods of punishment. Not only are we content to put more money into prisons than into education, we are also comfortable with the idea of a disposable class of citizens. For people on the left, who have become skeptical of the need for a war on drugs, it would be prudent to ask the same questions of the war on predators. Do we really think that we can arrest or fire ourselves out of this problem? — Meg Mott As both a victim of sexual abuse and an aunt of a rapist, I agree wholeheartedly with this article. I am also a psychotherapist and have treated victims and perpetrators. Therapy is not the end-all and be-all, but some form of self-reflection is essential for prolonged change. There needs to be a path for redemption that includes paying back a debt to the victims and society. My nephew was in jail for several years, where he underwent counseling. He no longer drinks, and has had to become self-employed as his criminal record makes him unemployable. He is very fortunate to have a loving partner and community that support his continued growth. If he had not been convicted, I doubt his changes for the better would have happened. However, if he had not chosen to embark on a path of self-improvement, then he would not have developed such a good support system. It’s not the victim’s responsibility to forgive, or to provide a means for offenders to reform. We as a community are responsible for these actions. We have the knowledge to do it, but we don’t have the will yet. I hope this #MeToo awakening acts as the catalyst to provide the will to help change perpetrators’ behavior for the betterment of all, including the abusers. — Helen Clark Avoid simplistic categories I think a part of the problem that has escaped the author’s attention is our desire to categorize people with simplistic labels like “good man” and “bad man.” The author used the term “bad men” four times in the article, implying that it applies to any of the men felled by the #MeToo movement. I think this reflects a lack of understanding of how complicated people really are. Some of the men named appear to be flawed but ultimately decent individuals who contribute to our society and culture with their work. I don’t mean to excuse their behavior; they made mistakes that harmed other people, and it is unquestionable that they should pay a price for those mistakes. But when we decide that someone is a “bad man,” we run a real risk of falling into a mental trap of concluding that someone does not deserve to have a place in society or to have a chance at growth or redemption. This may be true of some of the men under discussion, but surely isn’t true of all of them. — Math Professor Enforce accountability  While we are developing treatment programs, public policy options and reconciliation and forgiveness commissions to reintegrate these men into polite society, perhaps we can also spare a thought or two for the victims of these men. I have yet to see an article anywhere discussing reparations for the women who endured ruined careers or blighted financial prospects. Has Richard Meier reached out to any of the women he is accused of treating so appallingly to offer to pay for graduate school? Has Charlie Rose offered to make an introduction for a job opportunity to any of his former employees? When I think of the talent and hard work that so many of these young women had to offer, and in return received sexual abuse and official silence and banishment, it is really hard, at least for me, to worry about what will become of the men. Moreover, most of them have barely even taken responsibility for having done anything wrong. They have issued statements with phrases like “if I offended anyone …” and “while I disagree with many of the characterizations …” and “all of these relationships were consensual.” Corporations hire law firms to issue reports that hold management blameless, like Laura Walker of WNYC. NBC announces that it won’t tolerate sexual harassment, despite the fact that Ann Curry alerted management six years ago about Matt Lauer. How can we offer redemption when no one — not the victimizer, not his employer — takes meaningful responsibility? — Marjorie “What do we do with these guys?” is a very tough question. One blindingly evident example of what not to do has been provided by the Catholic church, which has used a failed “pass the trash strategy” that has enabled pedophile priests to move from one position in the church to another with no notice to parishioners and sometimes little to those at the lower rungs of the church hierarchy. The Catholic church, with all its resources, has failed miserably. What can we learn from the church’s inability to properly address the issue? Certainly transparency — something the Catholic church has avoided and continues to avoid — is key to any solution. One major problem is “gradations of offense.” But let’s not forget that nonconsensual touching is typically the legal definition of assault. So all of those people saying that “Bob was just a bit handsy” need to understand that Bob committed a crime. And Bob needs to understand that he committed a crime. Education is also key. But as we have seen with the Catholic church, even when leaders of these institutions have their feet held to the fire on these issues, they still don’t get it right. The final point is money. Like all things in life, if you want to effect change, then make those responsible pay. Money is something both the perpetrators and the institutions that protect them understand. — Belasco