Fifty years ago, NASA’s manned space program was grounded, still recovering after the Apollo1 disaster in 1967. “Lost in Space” was on television. This week — a generation later — we find NASA’s manned space program grounded again, in the wake of the decision to discontinue American flights after the conclusion of the shuttle program in 2011. And “Lost in Space” is again on television. The new head of NASA is Jim Bridenstine, a former Republican representative from Oklahoma. Would you be shocked to learn that President Trump’s choice to run the space agency is not an actual scientist or engineer? Or that he is a climate change skeptic? Or that he has never run a large organization? You probably wouldn’t. In fact, Mr. Bridenstine’s lack of qualifications make him a perfect fit for the Trump administration, a place that sometimes feels like what the kids in “Stranger Things” call the Upside Down, a world just like our own, except that everything there is inverted, darkened and corrupted. What would Bridenstine’s main asset be, you ask, other than not having any science background? Well, he’s no fan of L.G.B.T.Q. people. Calling the Supreme Court ruling that made marriage equality the law of the land “disappointing,” he’s also on record as describing the Obama-era executive order supporting transgender students as “lawless federal bullying.” So he’s got that going for him. You can see how someone without any science experience could be tapped to run NASA, as long as they could make up for it by demeaning gay and trans Americans, a group that of course included the first American woman in space, the unsinkable Sally Ride. Not to mention a transgender pioneer, Dr. Christine McGinn, who was flight surgeon for two shuttle missions. Talk about stranger things. Or, for that matter, “Lost in Space.” Netflix’s reboot of the kitschy CBS saga of the “Space Family Robinson” was a surprise hit this spring; a second season is already rumored for 2019 or 2020. I’ve watched all 10 episodes now, and I admit it grows on you, not least because Parker Posey’s nefarious Dr. Smith and 11-year-old Maxwell Jenkins’s Will Robinson are believable in this most unbelievable of adventures. It also succeeds because this “Lost in Space,” like its 1960s predecessor, reflects its time. Back in 1965, the Jupiter 2 blasted off in the futuristic year of 1997 because the earth was threatened by overcrowding; Dr. Smith, the saboteur, was a Cold War spy. (In short order, that character also became something of a gay icon, back when that meant being a scaredy-cat who said things like, “You bubble-headed booby.”) The new “Lost in Space” is set in 2048; the apocalyptic MacGuffin this time is an incoming asteroid named the Christmas Star — a doomsday event we later find out (spoiler alert) is not exactly what it seems; you might even, depending on what kind of NASA administrator you were, call it “fake news.” There was a 1997 movie of the franchise, too, about which maybe the best thing you can say is that Matt LeBlanc from “Friends” played the pilot. Each generation gets the “Lost in Space” it deserves. In hopes of understanding the universe a little better, I had a short talk with Bill Mumy, who played Will Robinson back in the day. As we began the interview, I asked him to check the microphone. Without further prompting, Mr. Mumy shouted, “Danger, Will Robinson! Danger!” — the old show’s catchphrase. So is he tired of hearing about “Lost in Space”? No. “It was a mirror to those times,” he says, describing an era that was, in spite of its earthly turmoil, also an era of optimism and hope. “When J.F.K. said that we were going to send a man to the moon, that resonated with us,” he says. “June Lockhart” — who played his mother — “and I discussed it on the set.” In between scenes of being chased by giant alien vegetables, that is. What the two series have in common is that each is sparked by a threat to life on earth. “We haven’t taken as good care of this planet or the people on it as we should have,” Mr. Mumy says. “That’s the consistent lesson of every version of the show.” Taking good care of the planet would, to most people, include an understanding of climate change, and NASA’s role in researching it. Unless, of course, you were the person appointed by Donald Trump to serve as that agency’s director. (In his confirmation hearing, Bridenstine attempted to water down his previously expressed skepticism, which was just enough to allow him to squeak by the Senate, 50-49.) If you needed further proof that we are all now living in the Upside Down, consider this: The Dr. Smith played by Parker Posey in the new series isn’t really Dr. Smith at all — she has stolen that identity from the real Smith, whom we see, briefly, in the first episode, a character played, in perhaps the coolest cameo ever — by Bill Mumy. That’s right: In 2018, the director of NASA isn’t a scientist, the president is Donald Trump, and Will Robinson is Dr. Smith. Back on earth last week, it was alleged that Mr. Bridenstine had used the resources of the Tulsa Air and Space Museum, which he directed, to benefit a private company he co-owned. You can be forgiven if, by this point, one more story of a Trump appointee accused of lapses in ethics makes you want to have a nice dram of the Lagavulin single malt scotch that Major West sneaked aboard the Jupiter 2. In an era when Ben Carson buys himself a $31,000 dining room set for his office and Scott Pruitt builds himself a $43,000 soundproof phone booth, maybe it all just seems like business as usual. But we need NASA, not only because of our fundamental yearning to explore the stars but also because of the necessary research we depend on the agency to conduct — research that may very well determine whether our Earth will wind up like the doomed planet the Robinsons had to flee in “Lost in Space.” Donald Trump, having made America great again, now prepares to leave his mark on outer space. Two years ago, while still in Congress, Mr. Bridenstine sponsored a bill that would have eliminated NASA’s objective of expanding “human knowledge of the Earth and of phenomena in the atmosphere and space.” What would you say about a world in which President Trump appoints this same man as the agency’s director? Danger, Will Robinson. Danger.