This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. One big potential bulwark against President Trump’s attempts to subvert the law is his own administration. If Trump’s aides and appointees go along with his various power grabs, Trump may well succeed. If other officials refuse, he is likely to fail. All of which makes Rod Rosenstein’s comments yesterday noteworthy. Rosenstein, of course, is the deputy attorney general, overseeing Robert Mueller’s investigation into Trump. In an appearance at the Newseum in Washington, Rosenstein said that people have for “quite some time” been threatening him privately and publicly. “I think they should understand by now the Department of Justice is not going to be extorted,” he added. “We’re going to do what’s required by the rule of law.” Who exactly has been threatening him? The president of the United States who appointed him, as well as members of the president’s party in Congress. Put in a terribly uncomfortable position, Rosenstein showed how to stand up for the rule of law. In doing so, he is keeping faith with a tradition of Justice Department independence that spans both Democratic and Republican administrations over the past half-century — but that Trump is trying to break. Rosenstein’s example is particularly important, because he hasn’t always been willing to stand up to his boss. But he now seems to have found his courage. If only more members of Congress and Republican elders would do the same. Iran deal. In Israel this week, we saw another cost to Trump’s disinterest in facts. Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister, gave a televised presentation bashing the Iran nuclear deal, but he offered no evidence that Iran has violated its terms. Netanyahu instead talked about Iran’s efforts to disguise its nuclear program before it agreed to a deal in 2015 with the United States, China and European countries. Surely, Netanyahu — who has opposed the deal since the beginning — would have offered evidence of cheating if that evidence existed. But evidence wasn’t the point of the presentation, as The Atlantic’s Peter Beinart writes. The point was goading Trump into canceling the deal. “Netanyahu understood his audience: A president bored by policy details, surrounded by advisors like John Bolton, who have long argued for abandoning the deal.” It was, Beinart concludes, “the first example of a foreign leader using television to sway Trump in the way American politicians and pundits do.” Trump is likely to announce a decision on the deal before the end of summer. In The Times, my colleague Bret Stephens offers a different take, writing that Iran’s history of dishonesty and noncompliance means that the United States should not keep the current deal. The Times editorial board criticizes Netanyahu’s “flimflam.” And Antony Blinken, President Barack Obama’s former deputy secretary of state, argues that scrapping the Iran deal would damage the chances of a nuclear deal with North Korea. Reader ideas. The Letters page features responses to my recent column calling for bold economic ideas. Among them: Elizabeth Bjorkman’s calls for “two years of mandatory national service for all citizens ages 18 to 28.”