Just last month, President Trump told the American people that he knew nothing about how Stormy Daniels received $130,000 in hush money. His lawyer, Michael Cohen, has insisted for months that he had kept Mr. Trump completely in the dark and that he had handled the entire matter on his own as a personal favor to the man for whom he would “take a bullet.” Enter Rudy Giuliani. On Wednesday night, the former mayor of New York and Mr. Trump’s latest legal fixer went on Fox News — where else? — to offer a new version of the Stormy Daniels affair. The president, Mr. Giuliani insisted, had in fact reimbursed Mr. Cohen the $130,000. Even the show’s host, Sean Hannity — another Cohen client — appeared stunned. What in the world was going on? The most generous read of Wednesday night’s showpiece is that Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Trump have made a calculated decision that Mr. Cohen faces real legal peril for having given an illegal campaign contribution in the form of the Stormy Daniels payment, and that Mr. Trump might be subject to co-conspirator liability. The best defense against a Cohen conviction — or worse, a plea deal — on these grounds would be for Mr. Trump to take credit for the payment, since the candidate can give as much money as he wants to his own campaign. But whatever the plan, Mr. Giuliani’s comments have turned the heat up on the president. Judging from Mr. Giuliani’s contrived and ham-handed delivery, it seems likely that this was a highly coordinated affair. Indeed, according to Robert Costa of The Washington Post, Mr. Giuliani said the president was “very pleased” with his remarks. In the middle of a friendly conversation with Mr. Hannity, Mr. Giuliani incongruously shifted the subject to the $130,000 payment to Stormy Daniels. “Which, I mean, is going to turn out to be perfectly legal,” he said. “That money was not campaign money. Sorry, I’m giving you a fact now that you don’t know. It’s not campaign money. No campaign finance violation.” The former mayor continued, “They funneled through a law firm, and the president repaid it.” Hint for political fixers: Avoid using the word “funneled” when explaining why your client didn’t launder money. It tends to suggest that you are hiding the money’s true source. Mr. Giuliani followed up with a boast that detractors have already panned as classic Rudy: “Everybody was nervous about this from the very beginning. I wasn’t. I knew how much money Donald Trump put into that campaign.” Yet in the same breath, Mr. Giuliani asserted that Mr. Trump “didn’t know about the specifics of it,” just “the general arrangement, that Michael would take care of things like this.” He then veered into the preposterous, explaining that the Daniels payout was too insignificant to bear mentioning: “Like, I take care of this with my clients. I don’t burden them with every single thing that comes along. These are busy people.” The bottom line, according to Mr. Giuliani: Mr. Trump knew about the payment to Daniels and repaid Mr. Cohen. He needs to sell this story so that Mr. Cohen’s payment was not a campaign contribution (more about that below) and that Mr. Trump didn’t really know about the arrangement in advance, and so has minimal responsibility for what is turning out to be a colossal mess with Stormy Daniels. This is not a big, clean Trumpian lie. It is messy and convoluted and falls apart when you spell it out: Trump didn’t know about the specifics, but he did repay because he did know about the general arrangement, but he didn’t really know because it’s just the sort of things lawyers do for clients and Mr. Cohen didn’t want to burden him since he’s a busy man. Got that? Good luck bearing up under an aggressive cross-examination on all this. It may, in fact, come to that, because among the many problems with Mr. Giuliani’s story is that it makes him a witness to important facts in both the Cohen and Trump investigations. It also, of course, indicates that Mr. Trump was lying when he said he had no knowledge that Mr. Cohen had paid Ms. Daniels. Presumably the calculation of Team Trump is that his base exacts no cost for even the baldest of lies, even one offered as the final you-can-believe-me truth after months of prevarication. Moreover, if Mr. Giuliani believed that this labored account would put Mr. Trump and the campaign in the clear, he was most likely mistaken. Even if the $130,000 payment were construed as a loan, it would still amount to a campaign contribution and still need to be reported. It’s true that the Federal Election Commission has historically gone lightly on such violations, but a knowing scheme to violate election laws would be a criminal felony. And assuming the charge would not fall under Robert Mueller’s jurisdiction, the prosecutors in the Southern District of New York — where Mr. Giuliani is remembered as a headline grabber — are available to fill the breach. Ultimately, there seem to be two possible explanations for Mr. Giuliani’s performance on Fox. The first is he was acting as a fully authorized agent for the Trump camp, which has made the calculation that some mixture of confusion and contrivance is the president’s best bet for minimizing the damage to his presidency from the nettlesome Daniels affair. The second is that as the new legal boss, he had Mr. Trump’s general O.K. and was freelancing in part and offering the latest in a series of partially baked solutions going back to Mr. Cohen’s first story. Either way, and in keeping with the tradition of this White House, telling the truth to the American people seems to have played no role in the calculations.