The title of this post is an actual question, not rhetorical. I have a hypothesis that may or may not be true, and am throwing it out for further discussion. Start with the puzzle: the unemployment rate is now very low by historical standards. In fact, it’s back down to 2000 levels; those were the days when employment was so full that people used to joke about the “mirror test” for employment: if your breath would fog a mirror, that is, if you were alive, you could get hired. (Sorry, zombies.) Yet wage growth remains restrained, well below pre-crisis levels: What’s going on? One answer is that the official unemployment rate is misleading as an indicator of economic slack, and/or that structural changes have shifted the Phillips curve. This could be true; but there are a lot of stories about firms complaining that they can’t find workers. So why aren’t they just raising wages? OK, here’s one hypothesis: it’s partly about downward nominal wage rigidity. The notion that firms are very reluctant to cut wages has a long history, for a very good reason: it’s true. That truth has been obvious to many observers; Truman Bewley made a systematic survey to confirm the point. Employers believe that actual wage cuts, as opposed to, say, letting real wages erode via inflation, are demoralizing and perceived as unfair. So there tends to be a zero lower bound on wage changes, except in the face of very high unemployment. Until the Great Recession, most economists believed that this constraint, like the zero lower bound on interest rates, wasn’t that important in practice. But during the recession and aftermath, downward nominal wage rigidity became binding for a large share of the work force: But that explains why firms didn’t cut wages when unemployment was high. How does it explain why they won’t raise wages now that unemployment is low again? OK, here’s my theory about the brontosaurus, I mean, about wages. What employers learned during the long slump is that you can’t cut wages even when people are desperate for jobs; they also learned that extended periods in which you would cut wages if you could are a lot more likely than they used to believe. This makes them reluctant to grant wage increases even in good times, because they know they’ll be stuck with those wages if the economy turns bad again. This hypothesis also explains something else that’s been puzzling me: widespread anecdotes about employers trying to attract workers with signing bonuses rather than higher wages. A signing bonus is a one-time cost; a higher wage, we now know, is more or less forever. If there’s any truth to this story, the protracted economic weakness that followed the financial crisis is still casting a shadow on labor markets despite low unemployment today.