This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Rudy Giuliani’s rambling media tour continued yesterday. In the span of less than 24 hours, he spoke with Fox News, The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, The Hill and ABC News. In doing so, he appears to have created two new legal problems for his client, President Trump. First — although it’s received less attention than the Stormy Daniels payment — Giuliani added to the already strong evidence that Trump has obstructed justice. Trump has offered conflicting explanations for why he fired James Comey, the former F.B.I. director. The true reason, Giuliani told Sean Hannity, was the Russia investigation. “Comey would not, among other things, say that he wasn’t a target of the investigation,” Giuliani said. “So he fired him, and he said, ‘I’m free of this guy.’ ” Greg Sargent of The Washington Post offers a good breakdown of why this is so problematic. It fits a pattern of behavior that suggests Trump was trying to protect himself and some of his associates from legal consequences. And Robert Mueller, the special counsel, appears to be very interested in that pattern, based on media accounts of Mueller’s work. “Giuliani has inadvertently lent more salience to this whole line of inquiry,” Sargent writes. Second, as my colleague Michelle Goldberg explains in her new column, it’s hard to read Giuliani’s comments about Stormy Daniels as anything other than an admission that Trump broke campaign-finance laws. The brief version: Giuliani acknowledged that Trump repaid Michael Cohen, another one of his lawyers, the $130,000 in hush money that Cohen had paid Daniels. Giuliani also acknowledged the purpose of the payment was political — to keep the alleged affair between Trump and Daniels quiet in the final weeks of the presidential campaign. Finally, Giuliani said that Trump repaid Cohen after the election. All of that, as Michelle lays out, seems to add up to large, undisclosed and thus illegal campaign activity by Trump or Cohen, if not both. Podcast recommendation. Michelle also points out that Trump is unlikely to pay any significant political price among his supporters for the latest revelations. If you’re trying to understand why his approval ratings have held so steady — and more generally understand American politics today — I recommend an interview with Lilliana Mason, a political scientist at the University of Maryland. “Ideology is an identity. Being liberal or conservative means something to you that goes beyond having issue positions that are liberal or conservative,” Mason told Ezra Klein on his podcast. “How strongly you identify as liberal or conservative makes you hate the other side really much more powerfully than any set of issue positions that you hold.” Don’t impeach. In The Times, Rep. Adam Schiff, the California Democrat who’s been aggressively investigating Trump, warns that Democrats shouldn’t move prematurely toward impeachment. “There is much more work to do before any of us can say whether the evidence rises to the level that we should consider a remedy beyond the one that voters will render at the ballot box,” he writes. “Should the facts warrant impeachment, that case will be made more difficult politically if part of the country feels that removing Mr. Trump was the result that some of their fellow Americans were wishing for all along.”