On Thursday, soon after a jury convicted Bill Cosby of sexual assault, his wife, Camille, wrote on social media that “unproven accusations” had “evolved into lynch mobs.” A few days earlier, representatives of the singer R. Kelly, who has been accused of sexually abusing women and teenagers, declared in response to the #MuteRKelly campaign: “Kelly’s music is a part of American and African-American culture that should never — and will never — be silenced. Since America was born, black men and women have been lynched for having sex or for being accused of it. We will vigorously resist this attempted public lynching of a black man who has made extraordinary contributions to our culture.” It is not surprising that those defending these two high-profile African-American men tried to link their fates to the historical narrative of African-American men who were lynched after being accused of raping white women. The fact that it rings so hollow now is progress. In 1893, after white mobs had murdered more than 200 African-Americans the year before, the anti-lynching crusader Ida B. Wells gave a speech in Boston that noted how charges of rape had been used to “destroy the manhood of the citizen.” She described these allegations as “a new cry, as false as it is foul” that “has proclaimed to the world that virtue and innocence are violated by Afro-Americans who must be killed like wild beasts to protect womanhood and childhood.” By the mid-20th century, however, racial lynching had decreased significantly in large part because of the decline of the cotton-based economy out of which segregation grew, the repeated threat of federal anti-lynching legislation (though of the nearly 200 bills introduced in Congress in the first half of the century not one became law), and the political mobilization by African-Americans again these heinous acts, culminating in the civil rights movement. In turn, lynching transformed from a material reality to a political metaphor. One way the metaphor was used was to condemn prosecution and news media coverage of African-American men who were accused of sexual assault. (Of course, there continued to be black men falsely accused of, and unjustly imprisoned for, the rapes of white women, as in the case of the Central Park Five.) But it was also used to dismiss black women who were often the victims of assaults. And it was effective, because it was so hard to challenge. By the ’90s, the metaphor was cemented in the American consciousness. So much so that Clarence Thomas’s declaration that his confirmation hearings had morphed into “a high-tech lynching” because of Anita Hill’s sexual harassment accusations all but guaranteed his appointment to the Supreme Court. Last week saw the opening of the National Memorial for Peace and Justice in Montgomery, Ala. Against the backdrop of the more than 4,000 victims of racial terror recognized there, the comments by Mr. Kelly and Mr. Cosby’s defenders are particularly offensive. How dare they liken the more than 50 women who have accused Mr. Cosby and the dozens who have accused Mr. Kelly to racist lynch mobs? Their use of the lynching metaphor is doubly egregious because it ignores the other part of Wells’s original formulation: When a black woman is raped, she said, “it is different,” a crime “for which nobody is lynched and no notice is taken.” Wells aimed to protect black women against rape by white men. But her understanding of how lynching also obscured violence against black women shaped a generation of black feminist scholars and activists who are now on the front lines of the fight for racial and gender justice in their communities and our larger country. Twenty years ago, my sister, Scheherazade, and I created a multimedia performance, “Story of a Rape Survivor.” I had been raped not just once but twice in college by black men, and she started a photo documentary of my recovery. We knew that by going public, we risked being labeled liars, or worse, race traitors. How things have changed since then. Black women — Patrisse Cullors, Alicia Garza and Opal Tometi — founded the Black Lives Matter movement. A black woman, Tarana Burke, started the “Me Too” revolution. And hashtags like #TrustBlackWomen have gone viral. The most paramount social-justice movements of our time now reflect the experiences of black girls and women who live at the intersections of oppression. The result has not only been a more inclusive grappling with the past and the ways in which black women have been forgotten as victims of lynching and police violence, but also a new reckoning with the present — one in which we start listening to the stories of our most vulnerable citizens, and finally believe them.