LISBON — On April 7, the Russian singer Yuliya Samoylova sat in her wheelchair on a makeshift stage inside Vegas Kuntsevo, a Moscow shopping mall “created in the Italian style.” Behind her, a facade of Rome’s Colosseum. Before her, a replica of Pisa’s Leaning Tower. And between those two landmarks, a thousand screaming fans listening to her sing “I Won’t Break,” her entry for this year’s Eurovision Song Contest here in Lisbon. “My castle in the sand is now made of stone and rock,” she sings in the ballad. “Those so-called broken wings are soaring through the sky.” Ms. Samoylova’s anthem of perseverance comes at a particularly fractious time for Europe. The Continent, pundits tell us, is ripping at the seams. Last fall, the far-right Alternative for Germany party won seats in the Bundestag with a campaign built on xenophobic rhetoric; Hungary recently re-elected an anti-immigrant nationalist; and Britain continues toward its divisive exit from the European Union. Just a week before Ms. Samoylova’s shopping mall performance, 25 European countries expelled Russian diplomats over the poisoning of a former Russian double agent and his daughter in England. Two-thirds of Europeans now believe their countries are “more divided” than they were a decade ago. The cracks seem to run deep. But at Eurovision — and the many preview events, such as the one in Moscow that I went to in April — I regularly see a vision of Europe where fans across the Continent, artists and their entourages are more connected than ever. This year’s contest, which includes two semifinals and culminates in a grand final next Saturday, will once again celebrate the diversity of European pop. It will also provide a space for outsiders, including a huge L.G.B.T. fan base and many upstart artists, to feel mainstream. As a gay Vietnamese-American, I’ve felt it myself. In 2009, while working as a correspondent at Time magazine’s London bureau, I started writing about the contest for my website wiwibloggs in my spare time, mostly as a means to find like-minded fans to discuss the drama and the divas, who are selected by the 40 or so competing countries over the course of several months. I began interviewing contestants — in Latvia and Moldova one month, Belarus and Sweden in another. Tens of millions of page views later, the cameras have switched directions, as broadcasters in Finland, Norway, Sweden and Ukraine put me on television. When I visited Yerevan, Armenia, recently, a local drag queen fed me traditional bread on national television, and throngs of Armenian teenagers speaking in gay American vernacular wanted to take selfies. “Queen, you slay!” one of them said to me. I’d been flown out to Moscow on that April evening to present Ms. Samoylova with a birthday cake — it was her 29th birthday — and to interview celebrities on the red carpet. As ever, pop music provided a common language, no matter our native tongues or political beliefs. Armenians, Azerbaijanis and Moldovans streamed past. “You’re the Beyoncé of Russia,” I told the towering and extravagant Philipp Kirkorov, a Eurovision alum and his country’s highest-paid pop singer. “No, Beyoncé is a she,” he said, his bodyguards leering just off camera. “I am the king of Russian pop.” The contest, watched by over 200 million people last year, cuts across language and borders. Along with mass sporting events like the Olympics and the World Cup, Eurovision is one of the rare occasions when people across dozens of countries consume the same culture at exactly the same time. Considered by many to be a factory for fast-food, disposable music, the show taps into something primal, which partly explains its enduring popularity. All cultures — ancient and contemporary — have music. Music is somehow fundamental; it activates our pleasure centers and, as an armchair psychologist or hipster might say, allows us to live the best version of ourselves, even if only for three minutes — the maximum duration of a Eurovision entry. For a few hours, Eurovision makes borders disappear, even as fans waving flags flash across the screen. During the concert in Moscow, I looked at my friend Jamilya, a university student from Kabardino-Balkaria, a largely Muslim republic that borders Georgia. She was lost in another world, singing along with Christabelle, Malta’s bubbly Eurovision singer: “Let our guards down. It’s time to break the taboo before we all become animals.” Eurovision was established in 1956 as a way to unify Europe after World War II, and it has always been at the fore of cross-cultural collaboration. Smaller countries can struggle to find homegrown talent, so they have often drafted artists and songwriters from elsewhere who have achieved local success or share a cultural affinity. Luxembourg has won the contest five times, though never with a Luxembourger (four of the singers were French and one Greek). And a certain Québécoise named Céline Dion won the show in 1988 representing Switzerland with the French-language song “Ne Partez Pas Sans Moi.” This year, San Marino — a country of just 30,000 people that once sent the same singer three years in a row — staged a contest to find “the internet candidate” from anywhere in the world. The winner? A Maltese singer accompanied by a rapping German with a song partly written by Austrians. Today’s narratives are frequently more harrowing, reflecting the many splinters in Europe’s history. Cyprus’s act this year, Eleni Foureira, will sing “Fuego,” a dance number by a Greek-Swedish songwriter. Born in the town of Fier, Albania, Ms. Foureira, 31, fled with her family to Greece during the country’s civil war. Ermal Meta — another singer from Ms. Foureira’s town — immigrated to Italy when he was 13. He’s now a huge star in his new country and is competing this year with a song about terrorism. The ideals that nurtured this ever-larger vision of Europe — freedom of movement and humanism — are clearly under threat on a number of fronts. Tighter borders are perhaps the biggest buzz words around the Continent. The French entry this year, an electro ballad from the duo Madame Monsieur called “Mercy,” takes a humanitarian slant on the subject and was inspired by the real-life story of a Nigerian refugee who gave birth to a baby called Mercy on a rescue boat in the Mediterranean. Singing from Mercy’s perspective, the lead singer Émilie Satt speaks of children being swallowed by the sea. But in the closing bars Mercy becomes “merci” — a thank-you to the European crew who saved her. “Making a sad song out of a sad event was not an option,” Ms. Satt told me. “It’s a song about a birth and hope, even if circumstances are dramatic.” That sense of optimism is what keeps the Eurovision bubble round and buoyant. There’s an implicit sense that the political and cultural history that brought the Eurovision community together will continue, even as radicals bark ever louder. After the Moscow Eurovision event, my friend Dmitri took me to a dinner party. The host, herself a die-hard fan, voiced her concerns about some of the night’s performances and offered her thoughts on the Hungarian post-metal group AWS, which played on my iPhone. At the end of the night, she gave me a cupcake she made to celebrate Russian Orthodox Easter, which was the following day. It was covered in neon blue sprinkles. “Take it to your family in England,” she said. “Tell them it’s not poisoned.”