“Do you realize that everyone you know someday will die?And instead of saying all of your goodbyes, Let them know you realize that life goes fastIt's hard to make the good things last” — The Flaming Lips The end of life, either your own or a loved one’s, is difficult to fathom. Brilliant writers have confronted the subject with honesty and courage in our section, creating essays that are among our most thought-provoking. We are highlighting some of them this weekend. What is the best way to live with the uncertainty surrounding a grim diagnosis? A neurological surgery resident, Paul Kalanithi, wrote with the perspective of both doctor and patient after he learned he had metastatic lung cancer at age 36. He died a little over a year later. Two and a half years into her treatment for Stage IV cancer, “the future was like a language I didn’t speak anymore,” writes Kate Bowler. She offers answers to the question: What does the suffering person really want? “It is up to me now to choose how to live out the months that remain to me. I have to live in the richest, deepest, most productive way I can.” So wrote Oliver Sacks, a neurology professor and author of many books, including “Awakenings,” in his powerful Op-Ed essay about his cancer diagnosis and making the most of the time he had left. Mr. Sacks wrote several articles during the illness that eventually took his life at age 82. In this, he wrote frankly about his religion and his sexuality and about finding a sense of peace. “I had a child die, and I chose to become a father again. There can be no greater definition of stupidity or bravery; insanity or clarity; hubris or grace.” At first he hated the hospice workers for the way their certainty about his mother’s condition pierced his thin membrane of denial. Then things changed. “Just as what takes place in therapy occurs behind closed doors, so too does the therapist’s grieving after a patient dies. Therapists mourn alone.” Natural burial grounds aren’t just about avoiding embalming fluid or requiring biodegradable coffins. They are about preserving the land.  We also asked readers to tell us how they would like to be dead. Here’s a sampling of your responses.  Going to finish the way I started, with this song about death and life and how fast it all goes. Make the most of it, folks. We've been curating some of the best reads from the Opinion section each weekend. Here are earlier collections of favorites on love and relationships; the wonders of nature; and how we view money.