I am ashamed to say that until recently I was part of the majority: I am the chief executive of a company that gave different benefits to different groups of employees. Like so many companies before us, my company, Rent the Runway, had two tiers of workers. Our salaried employees — who typically came from relatively privileged, educated backgrounds — were given generous parental leave, paid sick leave and the flexibility to work from home, or even abroad. Our hourly employees, working in Rent the Runway’s warehouse, on the customer service team and in our retail stores, had to face life events like caring for a newborn, grieving after the death of a family member or taking care of a critically ill loved one without this same level of benefits. I had inadvertently created classes of employees — and by doing so, had done my part to contribute to America’s inequality problem. When you’re founding a business, you take your cues on corporate culture from larger, already successful organizations. In America, some of the biggest companies have decided to handle the dual pressures of keeping costs down while retaining “corporate talent” by ramping up benefits packages. Companies like Starbucks and Walgreens compete for top-tier candidates by offering cushy policies in areas like parental leave or vacation. But the best benefits are reserved for corporate talent, for whom the competition is considered steepest; employees who work at hourly rates are an afterthought (and that doesn’t begin to factor in companies like Uber that opt to consider the people they work with “contractors”). When I started Rent the Runway, I simply followed suit. But over the years, I began to reflect on how the system that I and others had constructed may have been perpetuating deep-seated social problems. Last month, I equalized benefits for all of our employees at Rent the Runway. Our warehouse, customer service and store employees now have the same bereavement, parental leave, family sick leave and sabbatical packages that corporate employees have. We know the grim statistics, such as only 14 percent of civilian workers in the United States have access to paid family leave; one in every four new mothers go back to work just 10 days after giving birth; and people who make more than $75,000 a year are twice as likely as those who make less than $30,000 to get paid leave. Of course, chief executives and their leadership teams have outsize salaries as well as outsize benefits. C.E.O.s at the 350 largest companies make 271 times the earnings of the typical worker. The people with the most means have the most flexibility in their lives, not only because they have the ability to throw money at their problems but also because their companies grant them this flexibility to keep them happy. When Reed Hastings needed a break from the early days of building Netflix, his board allowed him to live in Italy part time for a year with his family. When Marissa Mayer, the former Yahoo chief executive, had a child, she had a nursery built in the office. When I had a daughter a year ago, I could afford to pay for child care throughout my maternity leave and afterward, so returning to work was seamless. But the people who are working in warehouses and call centers and retail stores around the country generally have few safety nets. I have a deeper understanding now than when I founded Rent the Runway about the ways these missing safety nets contribute to unemployment and limit social mobility. When I announced our new paid family sick leave plan at our warehouse, for instance, a woman stood up to see whether she could use this policy to care for her daughter, who was scheduled to have a C-section soon. Before that, she had been planning to simply quit her job, without ever telling us why. This has to change. As a founder of a company that has grown from two employees to 1,200 over the last eight years, I implicitly understand that Rent the Runway would not exist without the dedication and loyalty of our team. Don’t I owe it to the team that got me here to take care of them? I believe that these new policies are not only in the best interests of our employees but also of Rent the Runway itself, which I’m hoping will see higher retention rates, lower training costs and better overall productivity from more experienced employees. I believe that these new policies will help us retain corporate employees too, or at least those who care about working at a company that takes values seriously: I received more positive feedback about these changes from my corporate team than about any other leadership decision I have ever made. It’s time for business leaders to step up and fulfill not only their fiduciary duty to shareholders, but also their moral duty to society to treat every worker equally. We have the power to create the kind of workplace culture we want. And I hope our actions create a ripple effect at companies that will either have to disrupt their own cultures or see millennial and Generation Z employees choose to work at companies that more closely align with their values. I want Rent the Runway to be an example of what a modern workplace should be — a leader in creating a more human workplace, where the heart is just as important as the head, and where we show that we care about each and every member of our team equally.