This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. I spent some of last week digging into the financial statements of Barnes & Noble, and I was shocked at how bad they are. Revenue from its website and from Nook (the company’s e-reader) has plummeted. Sales inside its stores are falling, too. It’s plausible that Barnes & Noble will not survive. Some of its problems stem from poor decisions by its management. But keep in mind that Borders — once the country’s other big bookstore chain — went out of business in 2011. So some larger forces are at work here. What are they? The growing power of gigantic technology firms like Amazon. They’re strong enough to create existential problems for their rivals. And as much as many of us — including me — may enjoy Amazon’s service, I think it’s also important to recognize the larger problems that Big Tech behemoths are causing. Amazon’s growing dominance isn’t good for the book business or for the country. My column this morning explains why. I hope you’ll read it and, if you have thoughts, send me an email at leonhardt@nytimes.com. On the same subject, I recommend a Yale Law Review article by Lina Khan. (Don’t worry: Despite being a law review article, it’s well-written and easy for non-lawyers to understand.) You can also read a 2017 Times op-ed by Khan; a 2015 letter on Amazon’s business practices by Authors United and the Open Markets Institute; and a story in yesterday’s Times about Margrethe Vestager, a Danish regulator trying to crack down on Big Tech. The Rudy chronicles. In The Washington Post, Jennifer Rubin — herself a former lawyer —writes that Rudy Giuliani is severely out of his depth when discussing campaign-finance law. But The New Yorker’s John Cassidy notes that Giuliani is basically adhering to the president’s own playbook to undermine the Mueller probe. “Trump’s primary legal strategy is a public-relations one,” Cassidy writes. Either way, the Rudy-and-Trump show has bothered even some of the president’s most reliable cheerleaders, including Fox News and The Wall Street Journal’s editorial board. That’s in large part because “Trump and his allies seem incapable of telling a consistent story—or even of sticking to the stories they tell,” Politico’s Jack Shafer writes. The G.O.P.’s core competence. “A core fact of our era is that the national Republican Party is politically effective only as a vehicle for anti-liberalism, a rallying point for all the disparate groups who feel threatened by having our cultural elite in full control of government,” my colleague Ross Douthat writes. “Which means the G.O.P. is often more popular the less it attempts to legislate at all.”