NASHVILLE — When I was a girl, I often imagined the profession I would practice when I grew up. Being a librarian would mean getting paid to read books. Being a veterinarian would mean getting paid to love animals. Was there a job where people got paid to walk around in the woods? I would probably find out in college. I’m not sure how I got this idea of myself as a professional woman. I was a child of the small-town South of the early ’60s, and all the women I knew stayed home with their children, whether they cared to or not. (This was true of white women, I should say; the African-American women of my Alabama childhood were mostly working in the homes of white women who didn’t work at all.) I also expected to get married and have children. Of course I would; that’s what little girls did. I would finish high school and then college. I would go to work and get married and have a baby. The baby — and someday that baby’s siblings — would be the crowning glory of it all. I would love my work, but my work would be merely something I did, not something I was. What I would be was a mother. It’s not such a retro idea when you grow up in a family like mine. My mother chafed mightily at stay-at-home motherhood, but I asked her once what she felt she had been born to be, and without hesitation she said, “I was born to be a mother.” My father felt the same way about being a father. Everything my parents did, they did to support the family. We children were their role in the world. So how surprising is it that I grew up believing that everything in my own life was only a preparation for the day my first child was born, a circle I was drawing that would not be closed until the last child arrived. It did not occur to me that each of my imagined babies, the ones who represented the completion of my life, was born to draw a different circle. In the Venn diagram of their circles and mine, the overlap was barely an instant. The second my own circle was complete, it was already cracking open. Mother’s Day, with its hothouse flowers and its restaurant brunches, is only a visible manifestation of the persistent cultural belief that motherhood is the climax of female life. A man who is not a father is assigned no special designation at all, but a woman without children is too often thoughtlessly called “childless,” as though she’s lacking something, as though she is diminished, incomplete. But God help the woman who believes this message too wholeheartedly, who feels too acutely that motherhood truly defines her. The very culture that insists that raising a child is the single most important thing a woman can do with her life also maintains that she must be willing to surrender that identity the instant her child leaves home. The notorious “helicopter parent,” the meddling mother, the critical mother-in-law — these are all tropes at least as pervasive and unchallenged as any Madonna and Child image of manifest womanhood. A mother who can’t “let go” is a grasping, desperate creature, entirely to be pitied if not openly reviled. Laments about helicopter parents who can’t let go are missing the point for rank-and-file moms like me. How many of us really have time to micromanage a kid’s life when the kid is no longer a kid? Even if I had the time, I wouldn’t be tempted: The oldest of my three sons is fully on his own, and my other two, now in college, manage their affairs perfectly well themselves. Their lives, I know, will inevitably include me less and less. It wasn’t always this way. When the house my grandparents lived in burned down during the Depression, the whole family moved in with my great-grandparents. When my other great-grandmother became widowed, she joined them in the farmhouse. No one questioned the wisdom of this arrangement or suspected any of them of being emotionally stunted, unable to let go. They simply expected to spend the rest of their lives together, sitting on the porch in the cool of the evening, talking to one another. I love the symmetry of a life like that, love the idea of Sunday dinner after church, the whole family gathered around one big farmhouse table, but I’m also grateful to live in my own time and place. And I have always been too busy to feel sad when my children passed into new stages of competence and independence, even knowing that very independence would one day take them away from me. But I struggle with the constant reminders that my sons share their lives primarily with people I’ve never met, that they all do work I know only in its broadest outlines. They love me; I know that. They call often to chat, and they don’t hesitate to ask for advice if they’re unsure of something. But exactly as their own culture demands, they have also created lives in which my husband and I are on the margins. Peripheral. Almost obsolete. Even a house fire would not send them back to live with us forever. I will love having them all home for Mother’s Day, but in one tiny little corner of my mind I will also be missing the days when they were still so small and so needy, when the family circle was still close and closed. I will miss the smell of their sweaty little-boy necks and the feel of their damp fingers clutching my blouse as I bounced them on my hip. And I will remember all the years when Mother’s Day meant crayoned cards and plaster-of-Paris handprints and weedy bouquets made of clover and henbit and creeping Charlie and dandelion. The most beautiful flowers in all the world.