For more than a dozen years, the Department of Justice has been secretly seizing drugs from drug dealers. When the ruse works, the dealers think a rival criminal stole the drugs, and the Justice Department continues its investigation. The problem is that the dealers may retaliate against the rival or others they wrongly think are responsible. This practice of covert drug seizures is putting innocent lives at risk, and it’s time for Congress to step in. Recently in Oregon a large stash of marijuana was taken from a storage unit. When targets of the investigation discovered the apparent theft, the police say, they kidnapped the storage warehouse’s manager and threatened him at gunpoint. A similar story unfolded in Ohio in March. About 80 pounds of methamphetamine, worth around $1 million, vanished from a house in the Cleveland area. Officials say that the meth cooks figured it must have been an inside job, and decided to kill the suspected thief. Both burglaries were actually conducted by joint federal-state law enforcement task forces using delayed-notice search warrants. These warrants allow investigators to conduct covert searches and seize evidence when the targets are not around. Investigators then often stage the scene to look like a burglary, hoping to keep the investigation a secret. The federal law governing these warrants does nothing to protect innocent third parties from the risk of violence. Federal judges who issue these warrants must determine that there is “reasonable necessity” for the covert seizure of evidence. But the government is not required to disclose the often-predictable risk of violence or give the judge any information to evaluate whether the risk is worth it. Delayed-notice warrants were first authorized in 2001 by the Patriot Act after the Sept. 11 attacks. Since then, the use of these warrants has risen sharply, from around 25 in 2002 to 5,600 in 2012 and more than 9,000 in 2016. But my research shows that less than 1 percent of these warrants are used in terrorism cases. In the 2016 fiscal year, for instance, out of those more than 9,000 delayed-notice warrants, only 66 were used in terrorism cases. The vast majority — over three-quarters — were used in drug investigations. I’m not aware of anyone actually being killed in mistaken retaliation for secret seizures by law enforcement using these warrants, but the recent episodes in Oregon and Ohio underscore the dangers of this practice. In the Ohio case, federal investigators had wiretaps on the targets’ phones, and heard them discussing the suspected meth thief and their plans to “knock his head in.” Fortunately, investigators quickly stepped in, arresting the targets. The Oregon case, in which the innocent storage warehouse manager was kidnapped and threatened at gunpoint, was a much closer call. Law enforcement officers thought they were in control of the situation — they were even the ones who phoned their targets with the tip that the stash had been stolen. But they failed to anticipate that the manager might be in danger, or didn’t keep their targets under sufficiently close surveillance. The assailants left the man tied up in a storage unit after he told them he thought the police had taken their drugs. Delayed-notice warrants like these allow investigators to make a high-stakes gamble with the lives of others: stage a burglary to provoke threats of violence, which increase the severity of the charges, while planning to intervene before violence actually occurs. The Oregon defendants, for example, are facing charges only for the kidnapping, not for the less serious underlying offense of trafficking the marijuana that the authorities had seized. Investigators argue that covert searches and seizures are a crucial tool in combating drug trafficking and other crimes. This dangerous tactic might be justified in combating the large-scale importing of drugs like heroin and fentanyl, which are fueling the thousands of annual deaths in the opioid crisis. But it is less clear that this is the right tool to arrest marijuana distributors in a state where marijuana is legal and widely available, even if these particular distributors were violating federal law. We need to rethink the value of these covert seizures and put more rules in place to protect innocent bystanders. Congress must require investigators to frankly address, in their warrant application, the potential risks of violence and the steps being taken to reduce those risks. A judge can then evaluate whether those steps offer sufficient protection and whether the risk is worth it. The judge could also ensure that investigators are not conducting the covert seizure just to incite threats of violence to increase the charges. A fundamental premise of the search warrant process is to interpose a neutral third party — a judge — between the government’s investigative powers and its citizenry. Warrants authorizing covert seizures create grave risks of violence. If these warrants are justified, their dangers must be evaluated by a judge and not left to the sole discretion of law enforcement.