This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. There is a theme to President Trump’s foreign policy: Talk tough, and weaken America’s global standing. It’s virtually the opposite of Theodore Roosevelt’s famous line, “Speak softly and carry a big stick.” In Asia, for example, Trump’s withdrawal from a trade pact has thrilled China’s leaders, clearing the way for China to increase its regional influence at the expense of the United States. Yesterday, of course, Trump announced he was withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal. The decision horrified America’s closest allies. Our enemies and rivals, on the other hand, are quite pleased. “I don’t see any way Iran hardliners aren’t going to take this as a big win,” tweeted Melissa Hanham of the Middlebury Institute of International Studies. The withdrawal probably won’t set off “an immediate emergency,” Ilan Goldenberg and Ariane Tabatabai write in Slate. Rather, Iran will likely resume its pre-deal nuclear activities incrementally. At some point, America and its allies will have a choice: “accepting a nuclear-armed Iran or pursuing military action” to stop it. This is why Trump’s move is an enormous risk. It’s an attempt to weaken the Iranian government in the hopes that a “stable, well-functioning, and pro-American” one will replace it, Stephen Walt explains in Foreign Policy. But reneging on the deal undermines Iran’s more moderate politicians — including its current president, Hassan Rouhani — who backed negotiations. In The Times, the editorial board notes that Trump keeps blowing up Obama administration deals — on trade, climate change and now Iran — and promising to improve them. But “so far, again and again, he has shown himself to be adept at destroying agreements — a relatively easy task for a president — and utterly lacking in the policy depth or strategic vision and patience to create new ones,” the board writes. Trump’s decision was a “reckless gamble” and “an act of utter petulance,” writes my colleague Roger Cohen. Nick Kristof asks: “Why destroy a deal that is working, other than to dismantle some of Obama’s legacy?” And if you want to read a vigorous defense of Trump’s move, which I encourage you to do, try Bret Stephens’s column. Bret writes: “The goal is to put Iran’s rulers to a fundamental choice. They can opt to have a functioning economy, free of sanctions and open to investment, at the price of permanently, verifiably and irreversibly forgoing a nuclear option and abandoning their support for terrorists. Or they can pursue their nuclear ambitions at the cost of economic ruin and possible war. But they are no longer entitled to Barack Obama’s sweetheart deal of getting sanctions lifted first, retaining their nuclear options for later, and sponsoring terrorism throughout.” Election night. Several states held primaries last night, and the more extreme, less electable candidates — on both sides — generally lost. To put it another way, the primary candidates whom the other party was rooting against mostly won. There was an exception. In south-central North Carolina, an incumbent Republican congressman, Robert Pittenger, lost his primary to Rev. Mark Harris, a pastor. The result, writes the elections analyst G. Elliott Morris, “means that it is an open contest in November. Without the GOP incumbency advantage, Democrats’ prospects increase from 20 percent chance of winning to a 45 percent shot.”