It hurts the most when it’s one of the “good” ones. The latest man to torpedo his own career is Eric Schneiderman, who resigned Monday evening from his position as New York State attorney general just hours after The New Yorker published a long piece detailing the myriad ways he is alleged to have abused some of the women in his life: hitting them, choking them, sexually degrading them, psychologically mistreating them and verbally undermining their work and their sense of self. At home, it seems, Mr. Schneiderman was a sexual sadist and manipulative misogynist. At work, he was a champion of women’s rights, investigating potential charges against Harvey Weinstein, appearing at events supporting reproductive freedom, and even writing a bill specifically to punish the same kind of strangulation he is said to have forced on some of his partners. How do we reconcile these two versions of a single man? It wasn’t just that Mr. Schneiderman appears to have been a feminist in the brightness of day but a violent misogynist when the lights went down. [For more on women, gender and society, subscribe to the Gender Letter newsletter.] The reality may be darker: that the power he derived from his role in progressive politics was intertwined with his abuse. He seems to have used his feminist-minded political work to advance his own career, to ingratiate himself with the women he would go on to harm, and to cover up his cruelties (Mr. Schneiderman denies that he was abusive, instead saying he engaged in consensual sexual role play). And while this is just one disturbing story, it cuts to the heart of the incongruities of being a progressive woman in 2018: Donald Trump, who boasted about sexually assaulting and degrading women, is the president; the rage and dismay brought on by his election has also meant that powerful men are finally being called to account. And yet that accounting has made clear that even the men we thought we could trust — especially, perhaps, the ostentatiously good ones — may not be quite what they seem. The symbiotic relationship between Mr. Schneiderman’s public politics and his alleged private behavior is a difficult one to traverse, because on the surface they seem like opposites. Unlike Mr. Trump, whose misogyny has long been part of his celebrity persona and whose political platform is hostile to women’s rights, Mr. Schneiderman was, by appearances, a dedicated public servant who stood up for minorities and the underprivileged. Not only was his office investigating Mr. Weinstein, but it was defending young people facing deportation after being brought illegally to the United States as children and trying to expand voting rights in New York. Behind the scenes, Mr. Schneiderman, who was reported to drink heavily, is accused not only of physical violence, but also of injecting virulent misogyny and racism into the abuses he is said to have committed. Tanya Selvaratnam, who dated Mr. Schneiderman, told The New Yorker that part of Mr. Schneiderman’s sexual abuse involved him calling her his “brown slave,” having her call him “Master,” and confirming that she was his property. It’s impossible to know what exactly was going on in Mr. Schneiderman’s mind. But one has to wonder if his alleged actions were all part of the same pathological craving for the kind of ultimate power that makes one immune from consequence — that he got off on the simple fact that he had the ability to physically hurt women while being perceived as their noble champion. What greater sense of authority than knowing that you can rupture a woman’s confidence (and, reportedly, her eardrum) so thoroughly that she, upon your mandate, removes her tattoos, loses weight and comes back after you’ve hit her; that you can physically overpower and injure women and then scare them out of reporting it; and that you can also convince the feminist and progressive establishments to crown you one of their greatest leaders and strongest advocates? A man who derives satisfaction from riding in as a white knight fighting for women’s rights while he secretly abuses women: It’s so tremendously narcissistic it seems almost fictional. Maybe, if the abuse allegations are true, Mr. Schneiderman had two separate lives, totally alienating his abusive self from his feminist one, and maybe he lives every day with the shame of that cognitive dissonance. Or maybe his feminist self is part of the bigger power play and he simply enjoys getting one over on all of us. He saw career gains as he worked with progressive women’s groups over the years, and his prominence rose along with the current swell of a feminist-minded anti-Trump resistance, kicked off by the Women’s March and seguing into #MeToo. He rode that wave, and the women’s movements’ coattails, into much more fame than a state attorney general typically enjoys. His work in the realm of reproductive rights — and the praise he garnered from it — is a stark example. Feminists push for reproductive freedoms so that women can have basic bodily autonomy and economic stability, but also so that we can be free to enjoy sex for pleasure’s sake. Mr. Schneiderman promoted the rights of women to choose what we do with our own bodies, and then is accused of personally turning sexual interactions into violent, degrading acts done to his female partners. Mr. Schneiderman also seems to have used his feminist reputation as a tool to access the exact kind of women he apparently enjoyed breaking down, while his liberal bona fides made the women who say he mistreated them second-guess themselves, and stay quiet. According to one woman quoted in The New Yorker piece, Mr. Schneiderman told her that high-powered professional women want to be sexually dominated, and said: “Yeah, you act a certain way and look a certain way, but I know that at heart you are a dirty little slut. You want to be my whore.” Then, she says, he slapped her across the face, twice. She didn’t report it because “He’s a good attorney general, he’s doing good things. I didn’t want to jeopardize that.” So what are strong women to do if even the men who seem like good feminists might be misogynists, too? With right-wing men who oppose women’s rights, what you see is what you get. With these bogus male feminists, it can be crazy-making — especially since women are so often taught to subsume our own doubts and even our own experiences if men tell us we’re interpreting things incorrectly. Of course we want men to champion women’s rights, and we shouldn’t look skeptically on the men who stand up for all of us. But we should pause when we sense that men are performing feminism for kudos or influence rather than simply doing the right thing. Harvey Weinstein attended a gala for Planned Parenthood, where Hillary Clinton was also present, bid $100,000 on a painting — and then reportedly never sent the money. Louis C.K. wrote some great feminist jokes, but never seemed willing to fully give up the misogynist ones. And outside of celebrity circles, men including Clay Johnson and Don Hazen (briefly my own boss) found great success in progressive organizing and media largely by promoting themselves and strong-arming perceived detractors; it was little surprise to learn from recent reporting that they allegedly also bullied, sexually harassed and demeaned the women around them. (Mr. Hazen denied most of the allegations.) We should look at the male feminists’ relationship to power: Are they willing to cede and share some of what they have to qualified women, or do they use women as helpmeets and steppingstones for their own careers? When women challenge them, how do they react? — are they respectful or resentful? When they’re pushing for women’s rights, what’s more important to them: the result or the recognition? There is no way to divine whether or not a man is a secret abuser. If the allegations are true, then the former New York attorney general is surely not the last faux-feminist man to be outed as a vicious misogynist. But he could be the last one who might think that strutting his feminism in public will be enough to protect him if he exploits women in private.