On Wednesday morning, the Senate Judiciary Committee is holding a confirmation hearing for Ryan Bounds, a federal prosecutor who has been nominated to the influential United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco. The hearing is taking place despite the refusal of his home-state Democratic senators, Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley of Oregon, to return their “blue slips” — blue pieces of paper that senators use to indicate their favorable or unfavorable opinion of a nominee from their state. Blue slips are not provided for in the Constitution or by statute; they are merely a Senate tradition, and the importance given to them has varied over the years. But this latest shift in blue-slip practice has generated loud opposition, especially from the left, because in recent history — and during the entire Obama administration — no hearing or vote was held on a nominee unless both home-state senators had returned their blue slips. Now blue slips seem to be going the way of the filibuster for judicial nominees. Democrats eliminated that practice in 2013 for lower-court nominees, and Republicans eliminated it last year for Supreme Court nominees. Last November, Senator Charles Grassley, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, scheduled a hearing for an Eighth Circuit nominee, David Stras, even though Al Franken, then the senior senator from Minnesota, refused to return his blue slip. Now Senator Grassley will hold a hearing for Mr. Bounds, who lacks even one blue slip from his senators. (I should note that Mr. Bounds is a friend of mine from law school.) Mr. Grassley appears to be taking his cue on blue slips from the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell. Last fall, Senator McConnell told The New York Times that “the blue slip, with regard to circuit court appointments, ought to simply be a notification of how you’re going to vote, not the opportunity to blackball.” (He said he had no problem with honoring blue slips for district or trial-court judges, who, unlike circuit judges, hear cases just from their own states.) Many people have bemoaned the demise of the filibuster and now the blue slip. It certainly reflects a decline in senatorial courtesy. It’s bad news for individual senators, who now have less power to scuttle nominations. But the effect that scrapping blue slips will have upon the federal judiciary, and therefore the nation, is actually positive. The federal bench has a high number of vacancies. In January 2017, the start of President Trump’s term, there were 106 vacancies in the life-tenured federal judiciary. Today there are 174 current and known future vacancies, although 33 of Mr. Trump’s judicial nominees have been confirmed. Of these vacancies, 72 have been declared judicial emergencies by the Judicial Conference, based on how long they have been open and the heavy caseloads in their courts. Vacancies are a serious problem. Imagine any institution — a sports team, a legislature, a university faculty — trying to operate with almost 20 percent of its members missing. According to the Federal Bar Association, “The rising number of judicial vacancies prevents the prompt and timely administration of justice in the federal courts.” Delays in case resolution are most keenly felt by the less privileged, including criminal defendants languishing in jail and civil plaintiffs who cannot recover damages for injuries. Why is the federal bench so understaffed? One reason is blue slips. Republican senators abused them to prevent President Barack Obama from filling judgeships — keeping some seats open for years, presumably so they could be inherited by a Republican president to fill. Now Democrats are abusing blue slips, blocking Mr. Trump from filling the 100-plus vacancies he inherited and the dozens of new vacancies since then. Partisans might argue that it is better to let a judgeship sit vacant, even for years, than to have it filled by a president from the other party. But this misunderstands the work of the federal courts. As any federal judge or law clerk can tell you, the vast majority of cases heard by federal courts are not political. While important to the litigants, these garden-variety cases involve the straightforward application of settled law, and they would come out the same way regardless of the judge’s political views. Hot-button cases in the news are the exception, not the rule. Even the Supreme Court — which picks the few cases that it hears, and therefore has an especially politicized docket — decides about two-thirds of its cases by unanimous vote. As a practical matter, it’s much less important to have a judge appointed by a Republican or a Democrat than it is to have a judge appointed, period — confirmed and hearing cases as soon as possible. A judge’s politics will make a difference in only a tiny fraction of cases, but her presence on the bench will make a huge difference in terms of resolving cases expeditiously. Of course, judges must be qualified. Fortunately, given the prestige of the federal bench and the longstanding expectation of strong nominees, this has not been an issue. During the prior four presidencies, roughly 90 percent of nominees received “qualified” or “well qualified” ratings from the American Bar Association. Even the nominees of President Trump, who has a contentious relationship with the bar association, have earned strong ratings. For the current session of Congress, 100 percent of his nominees have been rated “qualified” or better, with almost 80 percent rated “well qualified.” A handful of nominees from the first session who were deemed “not qualified” or too controversial got withdrawn — which reflects the process working as it should. In the short term, with filibusters and now blue slips effectively gone (at least for appellate nominees), President Trump will enjoy a greater ability to appoint judges than his predecessors, which might not sit well with his opponents. But going forward, presidents of both parties will benefit from this power — and so will the federal judiciary, which will operate at or near capacity for longer. Both parties wanted filibusters and blue slips gone for political reasons. But their removal will actually reduce gamesmanship in nominations. The cynical practice of a senator using these tools to block or stall nominees will be much more difficult. Instead, vacancies will be filled on more of a rolling basis, not just in partisan spurts when a single party controls the White House and Senate. So, let’s cheer the effective end of blue slips for judicial nominees. Today, their absence will benefit Republicans; tomorrow, their absence will benefit Democrats. But over the long run, the true winner will be the federal judiciary — and all of us.