To hear it from politicians and political commentators, Germany is helpless in the face of a mounting refugee crisis — after accepting more than a million over the past few years, the country is bursting at the seams. But that’s just a convenient — if dangerous — narrative for our immigration-wary times. In fact, Germany is moving at full speed with a plan to channel those refugees into its work force. Germany’s political class is doing the country an egregious disfavor by soft-pedaling its muscular, state-of-the-art efforts in labor market integration. Germany does indeed face a demographic crisis, but it’s not from the influx of refugees. Its population is aging rapidly, and jobs are going unfilled. Over the next decade, Germany is going to need even more — not fewer — immigrants to keep its economy on track and cover growing pension outlays. Even this year, a leading think tank warns, labor bottlenecks will cost Germany nearly 1 percent in lost gross domestic product. A shortfall of three million skilled workers is predicted by 2030. Unfortunately, today many German politicians tend to speak about immigration as a security threat, a job stealer, a cultural blight and a welfare burden, even when migrants could help fill an estimated 1.6 million job vacancies. Outside of the public spotlight, though, Germany’s approach is one of hard-nosed economic pragmatism, distinguished by innovative social policy and the bending of rules to fast-track refugees into schools and vocational training and, eventually, jobs. At its heart is the country’s storied apprenticeship program, which is ramping up efforts to transform Iraqi, Syrian, Afghan and other refugees into qualified, productive, taxpaying workers. The number of refugee arrivals has fallen dramatically since the 2015 peak, when nearly 900,000 people seeking political asylum crossed the border. New, ever more restrictive measures pared the number down to 280,000 in 2016, and then to 186,600 last year. Germany’s net immigration in 2016 was 500,000 people, from the European Union and elsewhere. Of course, what Germany would like is skilled immigrants who apply through official channels and land at airports with luggage and work contracts, not victims of conflict and famine arriving at the border with backpacks. But Germany has had avenues open to foreign professionals for years and they have not yielded the desired numbers. So Germany’s going with what it’s got: an abundance of young, overwhelmingly male foreign nationals, a relatively small segment of whom have advanced education or professional training. Their profile worries Germans. But they’re interested in the apprenticeships — nearly 50,000 are currently vacant — that their German peers aren’t. There’s a rub, though: This sort of rapid, large-scale labor-force integration has never been done before, which makes Germany a giant laboratory for what could well be the future of the European work force. The plan is to teach refugees the German language and cultural norms, and then the skills necessary to join German workers in factories and hospitals. Overall, Germany plans to spend 3.2 billion euros, or about $3.8 billion, a year on integration. The stakes are high. “If integration fails,” a study by the German Institute for Economic Research concluded, “the continued presence of large numbers of refugees in Germany could result in sustained net transfer payments from the public sector, while at best providing a supply of labor for low-skilled jobs.” But, the think tank concludes, if integration succeeds, the costly investments in integration will pay off in seven to 10 years, the point at which immigrants’ tax revenue and pension payments will exceed integration and social welfare costs. Moreover, increased employment and consumption by immigrants could push up growth by more than 1 percent by 2025. The challenge involves more than just scale. Poor language skills, insufficient qualifications, cultural alienation, discrimination, bureaucracy and uncertain legal provisions have thrown up barriers that require constant rethinking and adjustment. Germany did not set out to solve these challenges with one omnibus policy. Rather, since 2015 it has been going in pieces, in a trial-and-error method. Among the changes have been a relaxing of asylum rules for hardworking, competent newcomers to stay in Germany and learn a trade, even if they fail to qualify for official refugee status. And now asylum seekers can enter the work force just three months after arrival. Another step has been to beef up language and cultural orientation courses. Though offered by the federal migration and refugee office for years, the curriculums have been revamped and are now available to most newcomers, not just those who are officially recognized as refugees, as in the past. Today 20,000 teachers offer classes at 8,800 locations across the country. According to the latest available data, from 2016, 340,000 people registered for the courses. In the 100-hour orientation class, migrants learn the basics of Germany — its culture, laws, history, the quirks of daily life. If they pass the exam, they can get a fast-track toward naturalization and, eventually, citizenship. After 600 to 1,200 hours of language instruction (and an exam), refugees have an intermediate grasp of German and can then start working or training. Some do, and Germany has smoothed the way for refugees to enter apprenticeships, remain in them and then be hired. In the past, refugees’ uncertain status worked against them by making it pointless for businesses to train and hire them. If their application for protection was rejected, they could be on the next plane home — rendering the investment worthless. The new framework ensures that refugees can legally remain in Germany for three years of training and another two as employees. Once in their jobs, they can usually extend their residency permits for much longer. Even today, though, it’s not quite as easy as it sounds, or as it should be. The cultural clefts run deep, and language skills are often still shaky after the basic course. Sometimes the federal bureaucracy undermines even the most straightforward application process. Trainees grow frustrated and drop out. To supplement the government, many hundreds of churches, nonprofits and private companies have developed an array of bridge projects that give migrants a boost: internships, legal advice, literacy programs, classroom courses, mentoring, retraining, skill assessments for those without degrees, on-the-job counseling, coaching for women and youth, and professionally oriented language classes. Public and private funds, for example, pay the bill for a program called Welcome by Friends — Alliances for Young Refugees, which supports 226 local governments that provide additional language classes, workshops and counseling to immigrant children and teenagers. In gastronomy and other fields, they offer special vocational courses just for migrants, some of them lasting for four years and taken parallel with advanced language instruction. Bavaria’s biggest hotel services lobby, for example, has 800 foreign apprentices enrolled in 20 different training programs. Kiron Open Higher Education is a prizewinning, crowd-funded “virtual university” that provides refugees entering higher education, or those who were already students in their homelands, with free online courses at 55 partner universities, enabling them to study for recognized degrees and then land jobs. Despite the bumps, there’s already evidence of success. Among the refugees who arrived in 2015, before most of these initiatives began, about 9 percent had found jobs by 2016, while 31 percent of those who had arrived in 2013 were working. In 2017, the number of graduates from the vocational training was four times the number in 2015. Those are promising percentages, but the numbers are still just a fraction of where they should be, translating to just 27,678 refugees. The labor market integration of today’s refugees is achievable, but it’s a lengthy, labor-intensive, costly endeavor. Economists say that a plausible best-case scenario is 50 percent or 60 percent of the current refugee population being employed five years from now — a prediction contingent on successful integration. If this happens, economists say that Germany can accommodate a net migration of about 700,000 people a year. Germany is in a bind of its own making — for too long it both failed to promote birthrates at home and maintained low rates of migration from abroad. And it’s not enough to quietly roll out these initiatives. To get true public support, the country’s leaders have to change the public conversation from one that fears migrants to one that sees how integration can help everyone.