When I was in my freewheeling 20s, the conversation over drinks with friends once turned to our mothers — and how they drove us nuts. I laughed at my friends’ gripes and shared my own, but I also wondered, “Why would I ever want to become this annoying person in someone’s life?” Nonetheless, I did have a child within a decade of that conversation. It didn’t take me long to realize that 1) I was in way over my head and I’d better call my mom, and 2) if my kid didn’t sometimes find me annoying, I probably wasn’t doing it right. In tribute to all that concern and guidance and love, this weekend we are sharing some of our favorite Opinion articles and videos on mothers and motherhood. Take a look. Old photos of our mothers feel like both a chasm and a bridge. The woman we’ve come to think of as Mom is also a mysterious, fun, brave babe. She’s been here all this time. In the position of mother, you will be responsible for literally everything, including keeping co-workers alive. From the filmmaker Judith Helfand: “My mother indirectly left me an object lesson on the importance of going through your loved one’s stuff with them. And so I urge you: Take the time while your parents and loved ones are still alive. It’ll be much more fun.” Watch more Mother’s Day selections from Op-Docs, our Oscar-nominated documentary series, here.  How is being a mother selfless? Selflessness implies that we have no skin in the game. In motherhood, we’re all in. “Someone will tell you to be sure you ‘don’t forget Mom today.’ To that, at least, your response will be honest: ‘I never do.’” “Mom was not famous, but she was remarkable. ... When I told her I was thinking of writing a memoir, she dryly remarked, ‘Of whom?’” “Much of the outlook that infuses my own writings was bred into me from my mom, who believed that even if pessimists were usually right, optimists were behind great changes.” “Soon before she died in 2009, my mother wrote a letter to the grandchild she would never meet. ... I was scared to open it. My mother and I used to talk for hours, about everything and nothing. Now there was one conversation left.” “People have pointed out to me that, despite calling myself a mother, I didn’t give birth to my sons. They’re right, of course. But there is a lot more to parenting than birthing,” writes Jennifer Finney Boylan. “Sociologists sometimes call the management of familial duties ‘worry work,’ and the person who does it the ‘designated worrier,’ because you need large reserves of emotional energy to stay on top of it all,” writes Judith Shulevitz.  An overabundance of advice has turned mothering into a hot mess of guilt, confusion and hard labor, writes Ylonda Gault Caviness. “Thankfully, I am a black mom. Like many of my fellow sisters, I don’t have time for all that foolishness.”  “I will love having them all home for Mother’s Day,” Margaret Renkl writes, “but in one tiny little corner of my mind I will also be missing the days when they were still so small and so needy, when the family circle was still close and closed.”  We’ve been curating some of the best reads from the Opinion section each weekend. Here are earlier collections on love and relationships; the wonders of nature; confronting death; and how we view money.