My mother was visiting me a few years ago in Chicago for Mother’s Day and we decided to go to church before brunch. The church was big and grandiose, filled with people. At one point in the service, the pastor asked all the mothers in the congregation to stand. My mother stood up. One woman after another rose to her feet. It was a nice tribute, an acknowledgment of all the things mothers are and do. I didn’t stand. I was in my mid-30s at the time and was not a mother (I still am not). After the service, an older man sitting nearby came up to me and said he’d noticed that I didn’t stand. “Is everything O.K.?” he asked. I felt awkward, unsure of what to say. He said he’d pray for me. He’d assumed something was wrong because I didn’t have children. Why? And why did he feel he could approach me, a total stranger, and ask about this very personal matter? A woman’s fertility, it seems, is still a subject of public concern. But the strangest thing about that short conversation was that I didn’t know how to tell him the truth — that I had been a kind of mother. I didn’t have the words. I had been in a long-term relationship with a man who had two sons. We lived together, and since he shared custody of the boys with his ex-wife, we had them with us part of the time. It wasn’t simple. At first, I was unsure of how to adjust to having these young children — 4 and 6 years old — in my life. But over the nearly five years we spent together, our relationship changed. The boys taught me how to play touch football and I introduced them to “The Goonies.” I spent hours in the grocery store trying to find food I thought they would actually eat, and together we spent more hours playing Sorry and Clue, driving to and from their mother’s house, reading books before bed. I remember one evening, the oldest was upset about something and went to his room to hide out. His dad went to see what was the matter then came back and said, “He’s asking for you.” Me? He’s asking for me? I was not the boys’ mother — they had one of those; I was not even their stepmother. But, I was something. The Census Bureau issued a special report on stepchildren in 2014 based on data from the 2010 census. Researchers found that it was difficult to calculate the number of stepparents because respondents who were living with partners but were not married did not know how to define their relationship to their partner’s children. “Since the English language does not have a more precise word to describe this kind of relationship,” the report said, “some respondents may decide to report their partner’s child as their stepchild, even though they are not married to the child’s biological parent.” When we don’t have the words to name something, it is as though it doesn’t exist. Maria Popova, in a beautiful post on her website Brain Pickings, wrote, “To name a thing is to acknowledge its existence as separate from everything else that has a name; to confer upon it the dignity of autonomy while at the same time affirming its belonging with the rest of the nameable world.” When you realize you are outside of what has been deemed normal, what has been named and defined, these are the things you feel you lack: Dignity, autonomy, belonging. And a shared understanding of the role you play. By the time the man approached me in church, I was no longer in that relationship. After a broken engagement, I moved to Chicago and away from where the boys and their father lived. Once I left, I found myself unable to articulate the loss. I was unable to convey it to others, who could sympathize with the loss of the man, but had trouble understanding why the loss of his children was hard for me. I felt invisible, until I started talking about it. As I became more direct about my experience, I heard stories from step-grandparents, uncles and siblings who found themselves unsure of how to navigate their role with non-biological family members when they “leave” the family or never formally take on one of the traditional nuclear-family roles. Pew Research Foundation’s analysis of census data and the 2016 Current Population Survey found that the number of people living with a partner they are not married to has risen sharply in the last decade — approximately 18 million adults in 2016 versus 14 million in 2007, a 29 percent increase. We know that more people are marrying later in life or not at all; that more married women are not having children and that more unmarried women are. By choice or by circumstance, all of these things are changing what it means to be a parent and a family. And yet we are still mired in narrow expectations and language that is not able to accurately describe the broadening range of familial roles. After publishing a book about my experience caring for and leaving children who were not my own, I had people write me emails and come up to me in tears at readings, expressing their own hidden losses, their own experiences that have gone unnamed and often unacknowledged. As the ways in which people create and maintain families continue to evolve, we should expand our language to accommodate them, name them and afford them the dignity they deserve. Personally I have been thinking of phrases like “almost-mother” or “near-mother.” Near to imply closeness, right next to. What are the words that accurately represent where you find yourself? “I am not a mother, but I was a near-mother.” What if I had been able to say that to the man in church? Would that have changed anything? Probably not: I suspect this man was considering a very narrow definition of “mother.” But it would have meant something to me, to be able to name it.