The Republican Party has celebrated itself for nearly 50 years as the “law and order” party. But in the past month, a disconnect has grown between the rule of law and the party. Vice President Mike Pence recently praised the former sheriff Joe Arpaio — who was found guilty of criminal contempt of court for ignoring a judicial order — as a champion of the rule of law, comments that unfolded as Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein battled a caucus of Republican House members, led by Mark Meadows, who seem focused on destroying the separation of powers as they seek to undermine the Justice Department’s independent investigation of the White House. In rare public remarks, Mr. Rosenstein issued a strong rebuke to such efforts, which included talk of impeaching him. “The Department of Justice is not going to be extorted,” he said. These Republican assaults — and others, like Rudy Giuliani’s comparing F.B.I. agents to “storm troopers” over last month’s raid of Michael Cohen’s office and residence — on the traditions of the rule of law have not gone unnoticed by people like James Comey, a lifelong Republican. He recently said that Republicans “don’t represent anything I believe in.” “I’m shocked, disappointed and disgusted,” he added. “I don’t know what it stands for honestly, and it’s going to have to answer those questions.” Mr. Comey explained that when he first identified with the party in the 1980s, under Ronald Reagan, he was attracted to the notion that character mattered, and said that “values matter most of all — that’s where you start in evaluating a person, an entity or a country.” The disillusion of Mr. Comey and comments like Mr. Rosenstein’s are clear indications of how the Republican Party is no longer the conservative party and no longer the party of Mr. Reagan’s conservative vision — a values-based, anti-Russia, law-and-order, constitutionalist philosophy, empowered by global alliances abroad and grounded at home in checks and balances that ensure government won’t overstep its bounds. Instead, it is now the party of Mr. Trump, who himself highlighted this shift. During the campaign, he said: “Don’t forget, this is called the Republican Party. It’s not called the Conservative Party.” With the growing gap between the rule of law and the ideological center of the Republican Party, it hardly seems a coincidence that the most prominent public servants to stand up to Mr. Trump have been career, nonpartisan federal prosecutors like Mr. Rosenstein, Mr. Comey, Preet Bharara, Sally Yates and, of course, the special counsel, Robert Mueller. Together, they make up what might be a vision of America’s true Republican Party, at least as it was envisioned by Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan. Those prosecutors share a common background: a professional tradition of intellectual and evidentiary rigor and burdens of proof, a strong moral sense — the polar opposite of the president’s unique blend of mushy, transactional, in-the-moment, muddy truthiness and whataboutism. A president who makes an average of six false statements per day would not last long in the courtrooms where those prosecutors made their careers. Whereas most people usually lump all law enforcement into the “Republican” bucket, it actually exists on a more nuanced political spectrum. Many county sheriffs, particularly in the South and West — like Mr. Arpaio, of Arizona, and David Clarke, of Wisconsin, both prominent Trump supporters with dubious dedication to the rule of law — and immigration-focused agencies like the Border Patrol and Immigration and Customs Enforcement are far more reactionary than the mostly white-collar investigators from agencies like the F.B.I. and Secret Service and the trial attorneys and prosecutors of the Justice Department. The Justice Department itself stands as a fundamentally Republican institution — but Republicans of a far different generation and ideology. The department’s founding, by the second Republican president, Ulysses S. Grant, came about as part of the way to realize the vision of the first Republican president, Abraham Lincoln. Its original mission stemmed from the Reconstruction effort to combat the Ku Klux Klan and protect the rights of freed blacks in the South. As Ron Chernow outlines in his new biography of Grant, it worked: Using his new powers, Attorney General Amos Akerman devastated the Klan, sending hundreds to prison. Similarly, for all the “Fox & Friends” talk of the F.B.I. as a hotbed of Clintonian intrigue, it has long been one of the most traditionally conservative institutions in American public life. The bureau, through much social upheaval over its 110-year history, has long seen its mission as helping to preserve a certain apple pie ideal. It has operated over the decades as a “morality police” that defends America’s institutional traditions and pursues those perceived as threats to the country’s social fabric, whether it was Harlem Renaissance authors in the 1920s and ’30s, Nazis in the 1940s, Communists in the 1950s, antiwar activists in the 1960s or “deadbeat dads” in the 1990s. While the F.B.I. is vastly most tolerant and welcoming than J. Edgar Hoover’s original vision, it remains the lead American law enforcement agency targeting public corruption, so it has a particular focus — and a particular scorn — for elected leaders and government officials who don’t walk the straight and narrow and follow the rules. It’s the prosecutors who have dug in and taken on Trumpism, pushing to ensure that he does not become America’s Viktor Orban, the Hungarian strongman slowly eating away at that country’s democratic institutions. In April, Sally Yates — the acting attorney general fired by Mr. Trump because she refused to enforce his travel ban — led a symposium at Georgetown law school focused on three topics that wouldn’t under normal circumstances appear to be controversial, yet each of them was clearly chosen as a rebuke to Mr. Trump: defending a free press, an independent judiciary and the rule of law. That same week, Mr. Comey said he hopes Republicans wake up to the bargain that they’re making with Mr. Trump: You shouldn’t compromise your values for short-term political expediency. He said: “What I hope they’ll do is ask themselves, Republicans: ‘So what will I tell my grandchildren when they ask me so what did you do? Did you trade a tax cut for the rule of law?’” Just last week, Mr. Rosenstein said in speech in Maryland that Abraham Lincoln had once wished that “reverence for the laws be breathed by every American mother” and had hoped that it would become “the political religion of the nation.” It’s hard to see how that tradition is being carried forward by Mr. Trump’s Republican Party. To see the glory and brilliance of the founders’ vision, instead we have to look to the prosecutors keeping watch over America’s liberties.