Before the next two months are out, the Supreme Court will decide two high-visibility cases that at first glance appear to have little to do with each other. One is the Masterpiece Cakeshop case, about the baker who won’t design a cake for celebrating a same-sex marriage, and the other is Trump v. Hawaii, the challenge to the president’s latest travel ban. One is as domestic as it gets, while the other is infused with issues of foreign policy and presidential power. What they have in common is the claim of religious discrimination at the heart of each. Does Colorado’s public accommodations law, which covers sexual orientation, make the unwilling baker a modern-day Christian martyr for his refusal to create and sell what he regards as his art to celebrate a union that he thinks is unholy? Does a travel ban that applies to citizens of five overwhelmingly Muslim countries, issued by a president who has made abundantly clear his desire to keep Muslims out of the United States, amount to religious discrimination in violation of the First Amendment’s Establishment Clause? I recognize that placing these cases in a religious-discrimination frame obscures their many distinct complexities. The Masterpiece case, at least on the surface, is primarily about free speech; the justices have to grapple with the nature of the baker’s “expression” before they can get to the question of whether being required to bake the wedding cake would unconstitutionally coerce him to express sentiments that violate his religious beliefs. In the travel ban case, the court will surely be attentive to the claims about national security and presidential prerogative that are the administration’s principal defense. Described in this way, the link between the two cases is submerged. My point here is not to offer a full-dress analysis of the cases, but rather to suggest that the imminent decisions will tell us a lot about how the current court thinks about religion — specifically, how it defines religious discrimination and who it thinks needs the court’s protection. Classically, the Supreme Court invoked the religion clauses of the First Amendment — the protection for free exercise and the prohibition against government “establishment” of religion — on behalf of minority religions. Rulings on behalf of Jehovah’s Witnesses who wouldn’t salute the flag, Amish parents who wouldn’t send their children to high school and non-Christians who objected to organized prayer in public school form the backbone of the First Amendment canon. But in recent years, the court’s concern has flipped. Four years ago, in Town of Greece v. Galloway, the court gave its approval to the regular inclusion of Christian prayer at town meetings. Justice Anthony M. Kennedy’s majority opinion suggested that anyone who took offense was just being thin-skinned. The Hobby Lobby case that same year marked the court’s emerging view of Christians as victims of an overbearing government and, by extension, of an insensitively secular society. The Hobby Lobby decision, holding that the religious owner of a privately held for-profit corporation couldn’t be required to cover birth control in his employees’ health plan, was based on the court’s interpretation of a statute, the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, rather than on the Constitution itself. But the opinion by Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., with its solicitude for the business owner’s far-fetched claim that he would be complicit in sin if his employees were to make use of their federally mandated benefit, clearly reflected the majority’s First Amendment sensitivities. And now we have, perhaps inevitably, the baker who won’t bake. The oral argument, which took place Dec. 5, included a surprising and highly telling digression by Justice Kennedy, who was questioning Colorado’s solicitor general, Frederick Y. Yarger, about the state’s position in defense of its civil rights law. The baker’s Supreme Court appeal, from a ruling by the Colorado Court of Appeals, included in an appendix the transcript of a hearing by the Colorado Civil Rights Commission on the complaint brought by the two men whom the baker, Jack Phillips, had refused to serve. According to the transcript, one of the commission’s seven members made this observation: “Freedom of religion and religion has been used to justify all kinds of discrimination throughout history, whether it be slavery, whether it be the Holocaust, whether it be — I mean, we — we can list hundreds of situations where freedom of religion has been used to justify discrimination. And to me it is one of the most despicable pieces of rhetoric that people can use to — to use their religion to hurt others. So that’s just my personal point of view.” The commission proceeded to find Mr. Phillips in violation of the anti-discrimination law. Justice Kennedy quoted from the commissioner’s remarks and asked the state’s solicitor general, “Did the commission ever disavow or disapprove of that statement?” Mr. Yarger replied, “There were no further proceedings in which the commission disavowed or disapproved of that statement.” “Do you disavow or disapprove of that statement?” Justice Kennedy demanded. “I would not have counseled my client to make that statement,” Mr. Yarger answered. Justice Kennedy persisted. “Do you now disavow or disapprove of that statement?” When the solicitor general tried to provide context for the commissioner’s remarks, Justice Kennedy cut him off. “Suppose we thought that in significant part at least one member of the commission based the commissioners’ decision on the grounds of hostility to religion. Could your judgment stand?” Mr. Yarger: “Your honor, I don’t think that one statement by the commissioner, assuming it reveals bias —” Justice Kennedy interjected: “Well, suppose we thought there was a significant aspect of hostility to a religion in this case. Could your judgment stand?” When Justice Sonia Sotomayor, trying to be helpful to Mr. Yarger, emphasized that the commission was a multimember body, suggesting that a single member’s views couldn’t have determined the outcome, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. interjected: “Where you have a three-judge panel and it turns out one judge should have been disqualified, for whatever reason, they don’t say that, well, the vote, there were two still, so it doesn’t change the result because it’s a deliberative process, and the idea is, well, the one biased judge might have influenced the views of the other.” Justice Neil Gorsuch then weighed in to observe that a second commissioner had said something similar. “So we have two commissioners out of seven who’ve expressed something along these lines,” he said disapprovingly. Justice Alito joined in, observing that Colorado had not penalized bakers who refused to bake cakes displaying messages opposing same-sex marriage. “One thing that’s disturbing about the record here,” Justice Alito said, “in addition to the statement that Justice Kennedy read, which was not disavowed at the time by any other member of the commission, is what appears to be a practice of discriminatory treatment based on viewpoint.” A few minutes later, Justice Kennedy wrapped up that portion of the argument with a lecture to the state solicitor general: “Counselor, tolerance is essential in a free society. And tolerance is most meaningful when it’s mutual. It seems to me that the state in its position here has been neither tolerant nor respectful of Mr. Phillips’s religious beliefs.” With Justice Kennedy’s vote likely to determine the outcome of the case, his comments were hardly ignored in the aftermath of the argument. I’ve quoted the colloquy at length here because its entire tone is so different from what occurred two weeks ago, when the court heard the travel ban argument. The question of religious discrimination found little traction among the conservative justices, who seemed more intent on blunting it than exploring it. They offered little resistance to the assertion by Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco that “this is not a so-called Muslim ban.” If it were, Mr. Francisco said, “it would be the most ineffective Muslim ban that one could possibly imagine, since not only does it exclude the vast majority of the Muslim world, it also omits three Muslim-majority counties that were covered by past orders, including Iraq, Chad, and Sudan.” (The current list includes Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen and Somalia.) Chief Justice Roberts, for one, seemed baffled by the very concept of discrimination in this context. Addressing the plaintiffs’ lawyer, Neal K. Katyal, the chief justice asked what would happen if the president’s military advisers suggested an airstrike against Syria. “Does that mean he can’t because you would regard that as discrimination against a majority Muslim country?” On its face, this was a ridiculous question. I can only assume it was designed to throw Mr. Katyal off stride with a display of utter disregard for the basis of his argument. If that was the strategy, it failed. And given how worried the justices were in the Masterpiece Cakeshop argument about whether the Colorado Civil Rights Commission — or the state’s solicitor general, or the state itself — had ever disavowed a passing remark by a single commissioner, it was notable how little concern they showed for President Trump’s failure to disavow his anti-Muslim statements. Chief Justice Roberts asked Mr. Katyal whether there was “a statute of limitations on that.” When Mr. Katyal replied that the test was what a “reasonable, objective observer” would make of the situation as a whole, Justice Alito offered this observation: “I think there are 50 predominantly Muslim countries in the world. Five — five countries — five predominantly Muslim countries are on this list. The population of the predominantly Muslim countries on this list make up about 8 percent of the world’s Muslim population. So would a reasonable observer think this was a Muslim ban?” Justice Alito proceeded to answer his own question: “It does not look at all like a Muslim ban.” Two years ago, Justice Alito, joined by Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Clarence Thomas, had vigorously dissented from the court’s refusal to hear an appeal by a pharmacist in the state of Washington who, because of his religious opposition to abortion, would not sell emergency contraception, the so-called morning-after pill. The state’s pharmacy regulations require druggists to stock and sell approved medications. In his dissenting opinion in Stormans, Inc. v. Wiesman, Justice Alito wrote that there was “much evidence that the impetus for the adoption of the regulations was hostility to pharmacists whose religious beliefs regarding abortion and contraception are out of step with prevailing opinion in the state.” Mr. Katyal, clearly prepared to make use of Justice Alito’s dissenting opinion, quoted from it in his colloquy with the justice. Then, referring to the case at hand, he noted that “this is a ban that really does fall almost exclusively on Muslims, between 90.2 percent and 99.8 percent Muslims. And so it does look very much like what you said in Stormans.” Justice Alito didn’t take the bait. The exchange may have baffled many in the courtroom audience; after all, the court never decided the Stormans case, and it faded from general view. But religious conservatives haven’t forgotten it. They know that the court, short-handed in 2016 following the death of Justice Antonin Scalia, would have had the votes to take the case had Justice Scalia — or his successor, Justice Gorsuch — been on the bench when it arrived on the court’s docket. Did it matter that the Stormans family, owners of the drugstore, were “devout Christians” who, according to Justice Alito’s approving description, “seek to run their business in accordance with their religious beliefs,” while Hawaii v. Trump concerns the interests of millions of people from different countries and cultures who share a religion and might want to visit the United States for work, study or pleasure — or someday even move here? Is it a difference that matters? The court will let us know, soon.