In a recent essay, Pamela Druckerman reflected on the sudden shift of being 40. People addressed her differently, expected punctuality and looked to her as the responsible adult in the room. She asked, “What is a grown-up anyway? Do they really exist?” Many grown-ups responded and enumerated the wonderful — and not so wonderful — things about aging. Below are some of those comments, edited for length and clarity. The moment you realize  When I was a boy growing up in 1950s South Carolina, my family spent Sunday mornings in church and Sunday afternoons “visiting.” We would get in our 1954 Chevrolet and travel the old rural highway from Columbia to Ehrhardt or Walterboro or even as far as my mother’s hometown Charleston to visit members of her family. We would travel back to Columbia on those Sunday nights, the highway almost devoid of other vehicles and light, save that of our headlights. The oldest, I would lay down on the back seat. My middle brother would lay down in the floor of the back seat. And my youngest brother would, with a pillow under his head, lay down in the small space between the top of the back seat and the rear windshield. Lying on the back seat, I would sometimes look around the corner of the front seat and see my father’s hands, illuminated by dashboard light, on the steering wheel. I remember feeling secure and safe; he was in control, he would handle any issue that might arise, he would see us safely home. Suddenly, I was 40. My son was seven. It was him sleeping on the back seat when we traveled at night. And the one with his hands on the wheel — hands illuminated only by the dashboard light — was me. — Rusty Inman The mixed reviews Last year I was hiking and couldn’t remember the name of an admired colleague for several hours. As a physician, I was horrified (we know way too much about neurological disorders), but as a women in her upper 40s going through perimenopause, I forgave myself. With a tween now who mirrors back the best and worst of me, I both love and hate aspects of my personality that are hard to change, but make me who I am. I’m thankful that I am healthy and happy, especially since I meet patients every day who are not so lucky. Life is about change and transitions — this is just another fun and sometimes frustrating one. — jenny I’m a man a few months shy of 65. The term “monsieur” notwithstanding, we go through our own set of stages. In your 40s your children start being able to do sports better than you. They stop thinking your jokes are always funny. One day, you wake up with some part of you that feels a bit sore, and it never goes away. Young waitresses start talking to you like they’re explaining Tinder to their grandparents. You realize that there is nothing in stores like J. Crew that fit you. In your 50s and 60s you’re finding yourself at work reporting to people younger than you. You literally have to stop yourself a couple times a week from saying, “That’s not how we used to do it.” In your 60s watching TV becomes an adventure because you can’t figure out what streaming service your show is on. But there’s some good stuff: 1. I sincerely don’t want to go back to my youth. I realize my lot in life is very good, and there was a lot of luck and dodged bullets along the way. I have no interest in rolling that roulette wheel again. 2. I don’t care about other people’s opinions. 3. I can afford to do what I want, within reason. 4. Everywhere I look, there are charming lovely women of all ages. It’s no longer a narrow range of women a few years plus and minus my own. 5. I’m not nervous around my boss. There is nothing he can do to me. — nub The silver linings The funny thing to me, as a woman who loves being in my 40s, is that although we are told that young women are more valued by society, this is actually not true. Young women are treated as things by people who want an attractive decoration. Young women are endlessly harassed on the street. Young women are dismissed and devalued on a regular basis. Being an older woman is amazing. I can’t wait for my hair to get even grayer, for people to stop seeing me as that object, to be a person, or at least be invisible to the random people who only see young women as things to obtain. — rockstarkate I’m in my 50s and I realized I was an adult, and wanted to be an adult, while shopping for clothes. So many ads portray women as the naïve ingénue, the sex magnet, and I wanted none of that. I have a career, a child and a MacArthur award. I wanted clothes that reflected these achievements and history. Luckily, last year I discovered Iris Apfel, whose style has pizazz and who doesn’t try to hide her age. Her style works because she’s old, not in spite of it, and it is not about being sexy at all (she is, after all, in her 90s). I’ve taken her style to heart — in my clothes and in life. — SAM As an interesting contrast, I am a 43-year-old white male, who’s 6-1 and goes to work downtown wearing professional attire. I have felt over the past few years that I have never been treated better by society, or with more deference. When I interact with people in stores, on the street, people give me their full attention, stand up straight and often say “sir” and “excuse me.” Perhaps this is a combination of my presence, gender, bearing and society’s expectations of how “middle-aged” men should be treated. I’d be interested to know what other people’s experiences have been who have dissimilar attributes. — Jason The release I turn 40 in 2.5 months. I cannot wait. As my birthday gets closer, I feel this weight lifting off my shoulders. I feel more confident about life turning out exactly how it is supposed to be. This will be the best decade so far. — Concerned Citizen I went to grad school and changed careers after I turned 40. I was sitting at my desk, contemplating the fact that if I wanted my “real life” to start, I was the one who needed to make changes. So on to school I went. Upon graduation, I landed a job where I was a peer to many younger people who had spent years practicing. I was green. Still, I noticed something right away. I appeared to command more respect and authority than my younger peers. I could flatter myself and say that it was just because I was really good at my job, but the fact is that my age and life experience had provided me with the gravitas necessary to appear more knowledgeable than my younger peers. It was a gift, one that I knew gave me an edge. Call me “madame” anytime. To me, it’s a badge of honor for achieving wisdom. — Lisa I must admit that, at 51, I am somewhat proud of the fact that I still sometimes get called “Miss” rather than “Ma’am,” even though my hair is graying and I certainly don’t look the same as I did in my 20s. I have no plans to transform myself into some generalized notion of a middle-aged woman in the future, nor to employ surgery or Botox and its ilk to try to look younger. But turning 40 was hard for me. Harder than turning 50. Forty is the age when you can no longer try to convince yourself that you’re still young. It is when you are required to step up and take full responsibility for yourself or compromise your self-respect. Once you cross that 40-year line, you’ll never be a youthful anything: genius, success, wunderkind, whatever. Expectations go up, and you start to realize that the grade of your life is now sloping downward, and there is nothing you can do to stop it. But as a woman, 50 puts you back to where you were at age 10: at the transition between one stage of fertility and another. And in fact, I feel very much like the change of menopause is very similar to the change of puberty. Puberty is the beginning of being released from the strictures of childhood; menopause is the beginning of being released from the strictures of society’s gaze. No one in our world is more underestimated than old women, and that can be a tremendous superpower to be exploited and enjoyed. If we dare. — TuraLura