In September 1961, Hans J. Morgenthau decided to terrify the world. Morgenthau, a German Jewish émigré professor at the University of Chicago, had already written “Politics Among Nations,” a work that would help define the study of international relations for a generation. Now he had become convinced that the threat of a nuclear apocalypse was real and that people needed to be afraid. Very afraid. His response was “Death in the Nuclear Age,” an essay in Commentary magazine that detailed in stark terms the cost a nuclear war would exact on humanity. It was both a warning and an attempt to spread existential fear. One might think that Americans in the 1960s were already afraid. This was, after all, the era of the doomsday clock, duck-and-cover drills and home fallout shelters. But we tend to forget how strong the culture of nuclear denial was at the time. In 1956, two years after the United States’ largest thermonuclear detonation, at Bikini Atoll in the Marshall Islands, President Dwight Eisenhower’s National Security Council ordered a classified study of the effects of the threat of nuclear annihilation on American attitudes. The report concluded with an extraordinary statement of optimism. An all-out nuclear war might provide an opportunity “to make the very best of the very worst” and to “raise hope for a new dynamics of the human race. It is a vision, indeed, but where visions flourish nations endure.” In a series of works published in the early 1960s, Herman Kahn, a RAND strategist, was arguing that the United States could survive an all-out nuclear war and even resume something like a normal life. Magazines like Life and Time were running features on civil defense that showed happy families emerging from their fallout shelters ready to build the world anew. Within a few days of a nuclear attack, a Time article predicted, people might begin to emerge: “With trousers tucked into sock tops and sleeves tied around wrists, with hats, mufflers, gloves and boots, the shelter dweller could venture forth to start ensuring his today and building for his tomorrow.” No wonder Morgenthau thought Americans were in need of a healthy dose of nuclear terror. Like Kahn, he had become convinced that we must be willing to “think about the unthinkable.” But the optimism of Kahn and others seemed to make the unthinkable even more likely. Hopeful visions that we could survive or even prosper after a nuclear war gave cover to wage one. Morgenthau needed to find a way to make the unthinkable less likely. Have we lost the ability to think about the unthinkable? President Trump’s decision on Tuesday to pull the United States from the Iran nuclear agreement — not to mention the careless and unpredictable war of words he has waged with Kim Jong-un of North Korea over the past year — and the anxiety it has caused in countries across the globe suggest that we should listen again to the alarm that Morgenthau sounded. “Death in the Nuclear Age” begins by invoking that most basic human fear — of death. It is “the great scandal in the experience of man.” It negates everything that “man experiences as specifically human in his existence: the consciousness of himself and of his world, the remembrance of things past and the anticipation of things to come, a creativeness in thought and action which aspires to, and approximates, the eternal.” Human societies, Morgenthau wrote, have tried to transcend death. For much of history, we denied the reality of death through faith in the immortality of the body or the soul. In a secular age, this strategy is no longer available. This leaves us with two options, both of which nuclear annihilation renders absurd. First, we can master death by choosing to end our lives through suicide or sacrifice. The latter gives us the best chance of being remembered by posterity. The hero who sacrifices himself for a cause gives his death and his life a larger meaning. However, this meaning depends on there being a culture or civilization that will live on to interpret and remember this courageous act. Without this expectation, he could not make sense of his sacrifice. Thermonuclear war destroys the possibility of heroism. Like other Jewish émigrés writing in the postwar era, Morgenthau found in the Holocaust the closest parallel to the prospect of nuclear annihilation. “There is meaning,” he wrote, “in Leonidas falling at Thermopylae, in Socrates drinking the cup of hemlock, in Jesus nailed to the cross. There can be no meaning in the slaughter of the innocent, the murder of six million Jews, the prospective nuclear destruction of, say, 50 million Americans and an equal number of Russians.” With all reduced to ashes, human remains will be unsalvageable, eliminating our most meaningful practices of mourning and commemoration. There will be no posterity. The second way that secular individuals transcend death is by leaving behind evidence of their existence. We live on through our children. Our monuments pass on “an inheritance of visible things not to be consumed but to be preserved as tangible mementos of past generations.” Some of these monuments are ambitious — world orders and lasting empires. But most are the ordinary stuff of life. The trees we plant, the houses we build, whose lives outlast our own. Perhaps most important, we produce works of the imagination — books, poetry, art — which are lasting testaments to a distinctly human capacity for creativity. When an individual creates, he participates in “an unbroken chain emerging from the past and reaching into the future, which is made of the same stuff his mind is made of and, hence, is capable of participating in, and perpetuating, his mind’s creation.” A nuclear catastrophe would destroy this world we have built together. It would evaporate the artifacts, institutions and communities that bind us together and reach across the generations. In the essay’s most remarkable passage, Morgenthau envisioned the apocalyptic annihilation whose enormity his contemporaries seemed unable to grasp: Nuclear destruction is mass destruction, both of persons and of things. It signifies the simultaneous destruction of tens of millions of people, of whole families, generations, and societies, of all things that they have inherited and created. It signifies total destruction of whole societies by killing their members, destroying their visible achievements, and therefore reducing the survivors to barbarism. Thus nuclear destruction destroys the meaning of death by depriving it of its individuality. It destroys the meaning of immortality by making both society and history impossible. It destroys the meaning of life by throwing life back upon itself. It is easy to ridicule or dismiss Morgenthau’s warnings now. After all, we avoided an all-out nuclear war. If Morgenthau was a “prophet of doom,” his prophecy failed. But this was surely his intention. He was a self-defeating prophet of doom. He foretold a nuclear apocalypse to help us imagine — and so to avoid — what had been unthinkable. Today, there are about 9,200 stockpiled nuclear warheads in the world. About 4,300 of these are controlled by Vladimir Putin’s Russia, which has been investing heavily in modernizing its forces and ominously flaunting a new range of destructive weapons. North Korea’s Kim Jong-un, contrary to President Trump’s triumphalist Twitter announcement, has not promised “denuclearization” in any common-sense understanding of the term. About 4,000 of the world’s nuclear warheads are in the hands of a United States president whose nuclear “policy” oscillates between antagonizing and inexplicably praising the ruthless leaders of nuclear states. Trump is now supported by a secretary of state and a national security adviser who hold even more alarming views. And yet most of America seems to be in denial. What would Morgenthau say to us now? And would we listen?