The new book by Gen. Michael Hayden, “The Assault on Intelligence,” grapples with the role of intelligence in what is increasingly becoming a “post-truth” world. Gina Haspel, President Trump’s nominee to replace Mike Pompeo as C.I.A. director, may soon be on the front lines of that world. As Ms. Haspel noted in her testimony this week before the Senate committee considering her nomination, she has been on the front lines before, in both the Cold War and the fight against terrorism. Her experience at the C.I.A. dealing with foreign foes and navigating the ever-shifting domestic political landscape provides her as solid a background as we can hope for in a nominee. As a former intelligence officer, I found it sometimes hard to watch the hearings. The demand by senators for definitive statements and simple explanations made for some awkward exchanges. The instinct of intelligence professionals is to avoid simple explanations, and to instead provide the background and context surrounding often messy and complex issues. Ms. Haspel’s role in the post-Sept. 11 counterterrorism fight was both messy and complex. It included terrible mistakes and great successes. The expectation by some politicians and newspaper editors for her to simply label the C.I.A.’s efforts as an immoral failure is unreasonable and unfair. As an executive responsible for a large work force, she has to find a way to make clear that she will exhibit impeccable judgment and speak truth to power without implying that her hard-working colleagues are moral degenerates. She cannot begin her tenure by smearing her employees. But she did send a clear signal about clarity at the C.I.A. under her leadership: “I would never, ever take C.I.A. back to an interrogation program,” Ms. Haspel said, and added that she would not “put C.I.A. officers at risk by asking them to undertake risky, controversial activity again.” Ms. Haspel’s biggest hurdle going forward is unlikely to be satisfying her congressional overseers or even tackling terrorist threats. Instead, it will be serving a president for whom truth is only what serves his personal purposes. Mr. Trump has recklessly attacked nonpartisan public servants and our justice system. It is just a matter of time before he feels threatened by his intelligence agencies. In this sense, while it feels unfair to use Ms. Haspel’s nomination to re-litigate the past, it is indeed fair to press her on how she would deal with difficult ethical decisions as head of the C.I.A. Those of us who served in the agency’s clandestine service know well that our bread and butter is intelligence collection and analysis. When we stray from our basic espionage mission, we set ourselves up for both ill-informed and justified criticism. In both the post-Sept. 11 interrogation program and efforts to topple regimes during the Cold War, we undertook missions for which we were less suited. The boundaries were less clear and officers’ training and experience less sufficient, leaving room for both mistakes and abuse. Presidents sometimes ask us to undertake missions that nobody else can do. We often do them well, but there is also more latitude for mistakes. Even successful efforts sometimes appear less so in retrospect. Ms. Haspel admitted as much with her comments that the C.I.A. was not prepared in 2001 to conduct a detention and interrogation program. That said, it is just too convenient to lay all the blame for the post-Sept. 11 mistakes on Ms. Haspel and or on the C.I.A. As my former C.I.A. colleague Doug Wise wrote in The Cipher Brief, “One thing I know, it wasn’t Gina’s program, and it wasn’t the C.I.A.’s program, it was America’s program.” The agency sought to use the full scope of its authority as provided by the White House and the attorney general, and as briefed to Congress. I’ve always wondered why we would refer to the C.I.A. overthrow of Iran or the C.I.A. torture program, while we never say the Department of Defense invasion of Iraq or the Air Force bombing of Serbia. Despite its secret charter, the agency executes presidential policies and adheres to congressional oversight. Its officers follow the law to the letter. Those awful times put pressure on everyone to do more, and most especially on those at the front lines. In the charged atmosphere after the Sept. 11 attacks, we at the C.I.A. were stuck with a no-win situation. As Ms. Haspel noted in her testimony, C.I.A. officers believed they were doing their duty and were saving lives, and indeed they did so. But in retrospect, she said, it is clear that the C.I.A. went too far. I agree with Ms. Haspel, and believe that the interrogation program was a mistake. However, having been among those whose job is to operate on the boundaries, I know that those boundaries shift depending on whether Americans feel safe or feel scared. Ms. Haspel’s interest in strengthening the C.I.A.’s core business of intelligence collection and analysis was music to my ears. Emphasizing global presence, a focus on hard targets, improving training and language skills and investing in partnerships is the right way to go. The agency is good at building secret-trusting relationships, identifying potential sources, recruiting liaison partners and writing intelligence analyses. Improving the C.I.A.’s technical and cyber-skill set is also critical. I am glad that I didn’t have to participate in the interrogation program — I was involved in Russian and Balkan issues at the time. Ms. Haspel’s critics should also be pleased they were not tested. She was tested, she made mistakes and she has learned from that. It will be a challenge for Ms. Haspel and the intelligence community to serve a post-truth White House. I am confident that Ms. Haspel has the integrity, experience and personality to do so. She will be an excellent steward of an important institution, and far better than most anyone else whom President Trump might nominate.