There are no middle options for what to wear to prom at my school. The dress code requires students to choose between dresses and suits, and I definitely wasn’t going to wear a dress — so it was time to go suit shopping. This year was my first time attending any high school dance. Freshman year, when I was still a girl in the eyes of most people, I told my conservative Christian parents I was attracted to women. From that point on, they decided they wouldn’t let me go to any school dances; they were worried about what I would get up to outside their supervision. And so, for the first two years of high school, I didn’t think much about dances. I knew I wouldn’t be going anyway. But when, later in high school, I did start thinking about them, I wasn’t so sure I even wanted to go. Toward the end of my junior year, I realized that I was gender-fluid — that my gender floats between identities. Some days I feel more feminine, some more masculine, and some days I’m somewhere in the middle. There aren’t many people I know of who are openly nonbinary at my school — fewer than five. All of this meant that school dances — where almost everything is not only gendered but ultra-heteronormative, from the clothing to the prom royalty to boys on one knee handing girls roses — were not exactly what I thought of as a welcoming environment for me. If my parents didn’t want me to go, I wasn’t fighting them on this either. When I turned 18, I moved out of my parents’ house, both on their orders and to escape a toxic environment. Now I live with a family that’s been generous enough to offer me a room and food. Suddenly, the question of prom became one I could decide for myself — and I was no longer sure that I didn’t want to attend. I’d spent all my time at my small high school in Western Washington State feeling cynical about the whole experience, about how the need to fit in — to develop an identity while simultaneously needing validation from peers — requires at least a few people in school to be shoved to the fringes, to serve as the “others” or the “freaks.” About how hard it is in this kind of environment to not compromise on who you really are. But even those of us who feel on the fringes sometimes can find the allure of senior prom hard to resist. I started thinking differently about prom in January, when some friends of mine started a push for me to make prom court. The idea was that my nomination would help end some of the outdated gender binaries around the dance. If I made prom court, I wouldn’t accept the label of either king or queen — maybe I would be something like monarch, or royalty. We’ll never know, because the push fizzled — but the idea that I might go to prom had been planted. Maybe it was finally time to stop being so cynical. Maybe I needed to break the habit of isolating myself and recognize that I might not be as misunderstood as I thought. Maybe going to a function so centered on gender roles as an unapologetically gender-fluid student was the best way to make people like me visible to the rest of the school. And yes, maybe it was a chance to publicly claim who I am after three years of being forced to present myself as what my parents viewed as feminine. Also, it seemed like a great chance to dress up. Everyone has a personality quirk: mine is vanity. My suit was provided through a service that gives prom clothing to homeless and low-income youth. It came with black pants, a gray shirt and a red necktie. With some of the extra spending money I’d made from busking downtown, I went to Goodwill and bought a burgundy blazer to finish off the outfit and dyed my hair to match. When I put all of this on the night of the dance, it felt right. A couple of my friends had given me a chest binder; for once, my chest lay flat and no longer bothered me. I hardly ever wear makeup, but that night I completed my look by darkening my eyebrows and eyelashes just slightly. Even that felt right. I felt prom-ready and confident. I wasn’t sure what to expect at prom. I thought school dances would be full of things like grind circles. In the end, I didn’t see a single one. I danced from group to group. At one point, I even started swing dancing with one of my friends, though he didn’t technically know how. In short, I had a good time. The decision to attend prom is an individual choice for every student. I know there are other L.G.B.T.Q. students out there who have thought that prom isn’t for them. But I’d encourage those who are out and comfortable to think about it. I believe the big fights for equality around L.G.B.T.Q. issues, such as hate violence, homelessness and economic fairness, can’t be won unless we fight the smaller ones along the way: the ones that parents tell you to shrug off and school administrators tell you to live with, including that homecoming courts contain kings and queens, and prom dress codes must involve either dresses or suits. There is so much change to work for. I showed up at an event that has historically been bent on sorting students into gender categories — boys and girls — and I managed to go as myself. That felt like a victory. Later that night, I got into a dance-off with a guy I’d never met. No one was technically judging, but I think I won.