Ten-year-old me would be horrified by how excited I am about the royal wedding. In fifth grade, I decided I had no use for princesses. None. It started one day when my girlfriends and I were chased by a group of boys on the playground in Joshua Tree, Calif. When we saw them coming, we huddled to make a plan. “O.K. — we’ll all go different directions,” one girl instructed us in a whisper, “and run like Maya.” I was known for being exceptionally fast, which wasn’t deserved, but it was apparently easy to attribute athleticism to the only black girl in the class. The boys came for us and we took off. When I stopped to catch my breath and looked back, all the other girls had been caught and had paired off with their pursuers, talking shyly. I alone had made it to the far end of the playground. “Maybe that’s why they all think I can run so fast,” I thought. “Because no one is ever actually chasing me.” But this was fine, I quickly convinced myself. Between overhearing adult conversations and absorbing snippets of pop culture, I’d pieced together what I thought was a basic understanding of feminism. My version could be summed up simply: Desiring the attention of men and boys was stupid. So if I didn’t receive it, I was winning. With that in mind, I viewed Disney and real-life princesses alike with disdain. After all, they always had princes at the center of their stories, and of their happiness. As a black girl raised in a predominantly white environment and seeing virtually no women who looked like me in mainstream television or movies in princess roles — or as the points in love triangles, or damsels in distress, or as the popular girls — this anti-princess version of feminism was as much a shield as it was a genuine ethos. Through high school and college, where many of my peers had absorbed those same stereotypes and racially exclusive beauty standards, I clung to my stance, and it served me well. Because black women were largely denied the cultural portrayals that seemed to define femininity, scoffing at those characterizations was freeing. It allowed me to take pride in being erased from the entertainment I consumed. Instead of feeling tossed aside, I let myself feel affirmed. Whenever I heard a radio segment or read an essay about how feminists were discouraging their daughters from idolizing princesses so that they wouldn’t grow up with the wrong goals and the wrong values, I was validated all over again. So how did I get from there to being a 37-year-old woman who plans to wake at 7 a.m. next Saturday to watch Meghan Markle wed Prince Harry? It happened as a result of my slow realization that there were racial differences behind the eye-rolls at all things princess that I shared with fellow feminists. While white women have long denounced stereotypes that reduced them to their physical appearance, black beauty has historically not been acknowledged nor celebrated in the same way in mainstream American society. White women have been cast as weak and helpless, while black women are depicted as possessing a preternatural strength and animalistic physical prowess. Because white womanhood has culturally been treated as the standard, white women are most at risk for being involuntarily defined as princesses, and denied their autonomy and strength. That is, no doubt, infuriating. But I realized something: It hadn’t happened to me. I didn’t grow up feeling locked into the princess role, but rather locked out. And as I realized that, my anti-princess feminism began to give way to something more nuanced. Princess culture — the celebration of a fairy tale version of femininity and romance — damages girls because it offers a limited vision of the roles girls can play, but also because it offers a limited vision of which girls can play those roles. Maybe instead of rejecting princess culture, wholesale, I could embrace different princesses. In 2009, Disney introduced its first black princess, Tiana, the star of “The Princess and the Frog.” Tiana begins not as a princess but as a young woman who dreams of owning her own restaurant and believes hard work is the only way to get anything done — a departure from Disney standards. Although I noted the legitimate feminist critiques of the film (for example, the spell that turned her and her prince into frogs was undone only because he married her), I also enjoyed the fact that Tiana had learn it was O.K. to relax and that she didn’t always have to work so hard. I loved seeing a brown-skinned black woman as a love interest, transformed because someone chose and loved her. And I allowed myself to revel in it. This is the part I would have to explain to the 10-year-old me: I need and appreciate images that subvert the tropes that have boxed women like me in. Recently, I read an essay arguing that since Disney owns Marvel, Princess Shuri in “The Black Panther” is technically a Disney princess. When I texted the news in all caps to a white friend, she mistook my excitement for outrage and responded with an annoyed “Ugh” — the same “ugh” I would have felt starting at age 10 and well into my adult years. What followed was a conversation revealing that we had completely opposite reactions to the idea of the tech wiz Shuri placed in the same category as the women at the center of fairy tales. To her it was reductive; to me it was inspiring. These days, my feminism is broad enough for both of us. Next Saturday, that friend may very well skip the coverage of the royal wedding and the accompanying giddiness over the new princess. Meanwhile, I’ll enjoy that the world’s attention is turned toward a woman whose racial background alone makes some think she’s wrong for the royal role. She found her prince — or he caught up to her. Either way, nearly three decades since that day on the playground, I’m enchanted by a princess.