A Big Mac costs $4.40 in Britain, a ticket to see the latest superhero movie is $10 in Spain, and an iPad Pro sells for about $800 in Switzerland — prices that do not differ that much from those in New York City. But if you’re suffering from ovarian cancer or rheumatoid arthritis, the prices in the United States for leading medicines are at least twice what those same drugs cost in those other nations. The fact that Americans pay more for their drugs has long spurred anger and questions about why we spend so much. Seniors crossing the border in buses to fill their drug prescriptions in Canada or Mexico is a perennial news story. It may surprise some, then, that President Trump devoted so much of his long-awaited address last week on the high cost of prescription drugs to reversing the narrative about drug costs in the United States. The problem, he said, is that Americans pay too much because others pay too little. “In some cases medicines that cost a few dollars in a foreign country,” Mr. Trump said, “cost hundreds of dollars in America for the same pill with the same ingredients in the same package made in the same plant — and that is unacceptable.” In his mind, foreign powers are taking advantage of Americans yet again. Other nations are free riders, forcing patients and taxpayers in the United States to subsidize the cost of global medical innovation. Amid a long list of proposals, the president’s big idea for cutting drug costs at home is raising them abroad. This idea, however, is based on a diagnosis that largely misses the mark and suggests a set of policy prescriptions that would be likely to have little effect on the drug prices that most Americans pay. “In a free market,” a recent report of Mr. Trump’s Council of Economic Advisers maintains, “prices of products reflect their value as opposed to prices in government-controlled markets, which reflect political trade-offs.” Yet the notion that drug costs in the United States are determined by open competition is fiction. Patents and grants of market exclusivity exist to enable manufacturers to exclude competitors and charge high prices for drugs for a limited period of time to recoup their investment in research and development. Laws and regulations require private insurers and government programs to cover drugs like many cancer medications at any cost. There is no consistent price of a drug across the American health care system. Virtually every payer in the system must negotiate its own terms with drug companies, from small insurers and health plans with little market leverage to the Department of Veterans Affairs, which achieves lower drug prices for its programs through soliciting bids and negotiating bulk discounts on multiyear acquisition contracts. There is little evidence that prices in the United States are fairer than those in nations that consider the value of each new drug before deciding how much to pay. Indeed, the average prices charged for some leading drugs, like Humira (for rheumatoid arthritis), in Britain, Spain and Switzerland are closer to the threshold that the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review, an independent evaluator of drug pricing, has determined would make buying such drugs cost-effective for Americans. Then there is the question of how the United States could even begin to make other countries pay more for prescription drugs. The answer, again according to the Council of Economic Advisers, will be using trade deals to “change the incentives that other countries face in making drug-pricing decisions.” This is not a new idea. Since 2001, the United States has entered into trade deals with 17 countries. All include strong patent protections for pharmaceuticals. The trade deals that the United States has with Australia and South Korea require due process and transparency in drug pricing and formulary decisions. While most of these trade deals are more than a decade old, they do not appear to have yet raised other countries’ drug prices closer to those in the United States, and they certainly have not resulted in Americans paying less for their medicines. Even if the United States successfully took a tougher stance on drug pricing in renegotiating Nafta or in future trade talks, it would be years before any effect manifested. United States trade deals require, on average, three and a half years to conclude and implement. These agreements would not apply retroactively to medicines already on the market. The number of new medicines subject to Trump-era trade policies would build slowly. This is especially true since Mr. Trump has made it clear that he intends to negotiate only bilateral trade deals, with one country at a time. The drug industry, no doubt, knows this, which why it is hard to believe that the dim and distant promise of revenues abroad will persuade industry executives to voluntarily make steep price cuts in the United States, which represents a third of the global pharmaceutical market. The Trump administration is missing an opportunity to confront the real reasons American drug prices are high and differ from other nations’. We do not pay more for their medicines because our patent laws are generous; European nations have similar laws. The United States is not the only country lacking a central payer that negotiates bulk discounts. But the United States is distinct in that it offers strong drug patent protections and limits the ability of public and private payers to appraise new drugs and bargain effectively for lower prices. This combination means companies price their drugs at whatever that segment of the United States market will bear, rather than as a benchmark of the drug’s therapeutic and economic value, underlying research and development costs, or expected global revenues. And in recent years, the United States market has borne a lot, with high drug prices leading to rising insurance premiums and fewer patients able to afford their prescriptions. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services predicts that Americans’ drug spending will increase to more than $1,700 per person by 2026. Mr. Trump must decide whether he has the conviction of his campaign claims. If his goal remains to lower the prices of medicines for Americans, he will succeed only by identifying and learning from the best practices abroad rather than finding new ways to undermine them. Following those examples, Mr. Trump should support establishing a transparent mechanism to determine reasonable prices for innovative medicines that are based on the lives and health care costs they save, and then work with government programs and insurance companies to achieve them. Until that happens, Mr. Trump will remain a soothing presence to the pharmaceutical industry and its investors.