This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. I spent some time last week analyzing the mix of women and men whom I quote in my work — both in this newsletter and in my weekly column. The results for the newsletter are decent, largely because of some specific steps I’ve taken. The results for the column are much worse. I describe them all in my column today and offer some thoughts about how I — and other journalists — can do better. For too long, many of us have made excuses about why journalism is dominated by male voices. It doesn’t need to be. On the same subject: Several groups — the Women’s Media Center, the journal PLOS One and The OpEd Project — have analyzed the gender mix of voices in the media. Anne Connell of the Council on Foreign Relations looked specifically at bylines in recent issues of four major magazines: The Atlantic, Foreign Affairs, Foreign Policy and The New Yorker. In The Forward, Talia Lavin recommends an application called proporti.onl, which lets Twitter users determine the gender mix of the accounts they follow. In The Atlantic, Rebecca Rosen and Ron Fournier have lamented the frequency of the all-male panel — the dreaded “manel” — and discussed solutions. When she worked for Vox, Amanda Taub wrote a good overview of this issue. Since coming to The Times, she and her colleague Max Fisher have also written about it. As part of this project, I’ve also put together a few Twitter lists — on politics, economics and other subjects — composed entirely of women. And Susan Hennessey and others at the Brookings Institution have just launched a database of female experts on technology policy. Corporate power. The problem of corporate consolidation has been a theme of this newsletter in recent weeks. In The Times, Bryce Covert explains the important role that mergers have played in holding down wages. New feature. On Mondays, my colleague Rachel Dry — who edits the Sunday Review — will often be calling your attention to one piece from the weekend issue. Here’s Rachel’s first recommendation: “Scott Shane, a reporter in The Times’s Washington bureau, writes about a challenge for journalists today: What to do when your scoops and leaks come from foreign intelligence services. “What does this mean for journalism? It means that the old rules don’t apply. Or rather, if you rely on those rules you could end up doing the work a foreign spy wants you to do. Shane thinks through the implications for all of us — both people who produce the news, and people who consume it.” The full Opinion report from The Times follows.