SAN DIEGO — The United States-Mexico border, as we know it today, began with a party: a three-day shindig in 1849 that was attended by the surveyors from both countries who worked together to establish and map the frontier. When the surveyors’ work was done, they erected a marble marker overlooking a lonely beach on the Pacific Ocean. The first iron fence erected at the border in California was a cage to protect that monument from vandals. The United States built the first truly formidable border barrier here in the 1990s. In March, President Trump traveled to the border to stand before eight prototypes of the wall he wants to build there. But, a “wall” already exists all along the border. Mr. Trump’s proposed “big, beautiful” barrier would be overkill, and little more than an act of political symbolism. It would be a taxpayer-funded work of colossal conservative conceptual art running across the North American continent. (In fact, in January, a nonprofit group circulated a petition to protect the prototypes from demolition, arguing that they should be characterized as “a major Land Art exhibition” of “significant cultural value.”) In the same way certain pretentious art drives practical-minded people crazy, the idea of this Pharaonic project infuriates people like me. At the Pacific Ocean, the border consists of one, two and sometimes three parallel fences that stretch into the desert. There are lights, cameras and motion detectors. Similar measures are in place at all of the urban crossing points along the Mexican border. Even in the remote, sparsely populated Arizona desert, the Border Patrol makes use of radar, thermal imaging and high-definition cameras. These measures, along with a Border Patrol staff that’s almost five times as big as it was in 1992, amount to a virtual wall that’s extremely difficult to cross. The sealed-off border also exerts a powerful psychological effect northward, in the very land it’s meant to protect. For many residents of the United States, including military personnel, college graduates and grandparents, the virtual wall is a reminder of the threat that hovers over them always — deportation. This month, tens of thousands of Hondurans learned that their temporary protected status was being revoked. Like other longtime, legal inhabitants of the United States from other countries, they know they might soon be tossed over the virtual wall, unable to return. I first visited this impenetrable border more than 20 years ago. Not long after Mr. Trump’s recent visit, I returned, walking in the fog toward the existing fences, on a mile-long path through Border Field State Park, past coastal sage and along the beach. I met a group of Japanese tourists and a bird-watcher who told me of a merlin, a small falcon, nearby. But I saw no illegal crossers. In 1971, the United States donated the land for Border Field State Park and for Friendship Park, a cement plaza built around that first border monument overlooking the beach. Pat Nixon, the first lady, attended the opening of the park as a good-will gesture toward our southern neighbor. A Mexican man, holding a child, reached through a low, flimsy barbed-wire fence to shake her hand. In the years that followed, the United States split Friendship Park in half and left the old border marker on the Mexican side. In 1988 the artists Guillermo Gomez-Peña and Emily Hicks made their wedding into a piece of political performance art: They were married on the sand of the beach, the fence between them. When a caravan of more than 150 Central American immigrants arrived here on April 29, seeking asylum, they stood on the Mexican side, facing Friendship Park. Their mere presence before the steel barrier dipping absurdly into the ocean was a statement in itself. On the northern side, some 100 yards away, a crowd held signs in support of immigrants. They were separated from the caravan by two fences. Mr. Trump’s desired wall would begin at the beach and run some 722 miles inland, through desolate, peopleless landscapes first visited by those United States and Mexican surveyors in the 19th century. The existing, virtual wall — the combination of checkpoints, physical barriers and high-tech security measures — is already an instrument of fear. It has pushed would-be border  crossers into treacherous areas, and thousands have died in one of the greatest continuing human tragedies in the Western Hemisphere. The horrors of the border are common knowledge in the Latino United States. For millions of immigrants, both legal and undocumented, the virtual wall looms over their lives as the Berlin Wall did for East Germans; it’s the work of an arbitrary and cruel political system that accepts the products of their labor while keeping them trapped in a legal limbo. President Trump’s new wall would be more insult than injury. For a man who began his campaign degrading Mexican immigrants, it’s another ugly, empty rhetorical flourish; only this one would be made with concrete and rebar.