CHICAGO — What makes people leave the gang life for good? The conventional wisdom is that a young man who is part of the gang life in a violent community, standing on a corner, perhaps selling drugs, does so out of choice. On the corner he makes money. He’s respected and feared. A minimum-wage job picking up trash in the park? That’s for chumps and losers. That conventional wisdom might be wrong. The reasons the young man stays on the corner might be completely different from what we imagine. He might, after all, want that park job, and want to get off the corner, but not know how. Baten Phillips’s job is to show him how. Mr. Phillips himself has two unusual — but both typically Chicagoan — jobs. At night he’s a comedian who trained in improv at Second City, and goes by  Baldhead Phillips. He hosts a regular show on Wednesdays at a Chicago club, headlines in other clubs around the city and has appeared on national television shows like “Martin Lawrence Presents 1st Amendment Standup.” His routines are hilarious (and not for the fainthearted about obscenities). But during the day in Englewood, one of Chicago’s most dangerous neighborhoods, his job is serious. He’s got a tattoo on his left arm: “Englewood Hustler.” He served four and a half years in prison in Minnesota on drug charges, including a year in solitary, which he calls lucky. “I read a lot of religious books,” he said. “I was thinking for the first time in my life that I really was not supposed to be there.” He decided to find a way to give back to his neighborhood. So he became an outreach worker, employed by a program named Cure Violence to recruit participants for an initiative known as Readi Chicago (for Rapid Employment and Development Initiative). He uses his familiarity with the neighborhood and his street cred to track down young men who run a high risk of shooting someone or getting shot, and then bring them into a venture designed to get them out of the street life. In 2016, 764 people were murdered in Chicago, 58 percent more than in 2015. Late in 2016, a group of people who work in foundations and social service agencies met to see what they could do. They created Readi, which is based at the antipoverty organization Heartland Alliance. The program works in four high-crime neighborhoods, trying to get several hundred individuals into jobs. It combines two elements that have had success in the past. One is cognitive behavioral therapy, which takes place in group meetings three mornings a week; each time a participant attends, he gets a $25 gift card. (The other two weekday mornings each week they learn job skills.) The purpose is to help them identify and change harmful thought processes: for example, learning not to instantly assume harmful intent in an interaction. When this therapy was tried with Chicago high-school students — obviously a very different group of people — it reduced violent crime arrests by 50 percent and produced $30 in savings for the city from reduced crime for every dollar spent. In addition, youths in the program were 19 percent more likely to graduate high school on time than those in a control group. The other element is a transitional jobs program that gives people entry-level or subsidized jobs, with the goal of preparing them for better jobs. Such programs have been successful even when they last for just a few weeks. Readi keeps each participant for 18 months, and keeps checking in with him for six months more. The men start by picking up trash in parks and their own neighborhoods at minimum wage, currently $11 an hour. Then they move into jobs with more skills and responsibility, such as in the city’s animal shelter. In the last phase, they prepare for private jobs in fields like construction or commercial driving. As with Cure Violence’s work to break individuals’ cycle of violence, which I wrote about last week, being a credible messenger is crucial. Richard Lovett got out of prison eight months ago. He had been arrested at age 20 and served 22 years of a 45-year sentence for his role in a murder. “I was involved in gangs, drugs and street culture,” he said. “I thought I was going to be an entrepreneur when I got out of prison.” he added. “I took business classes, accounting.” Mr. Lovett wrote a novel about the life of a gangster from Chicago’s South Side. Then he found out about outreach work. “This is my dream job,” he said. “I would do it for free.” Readi, still in its early days, is ambitious and expensive — it costs the organization $29,000 per year for each participant in the jobs program, said Eddie Bocanegra, the senior director of Readi. He said $15,000 of that is the salary the men earn. “We anticipated uptake would be a challenge,” Mr. Bocanegra said. “These are individuals highly disconnected from the community, with a past history of incarceration or chronic trauma.” “The North Star is connecting with the individuals,” he said. “And the most critical part of that is relentless engagement. I don’t want to hear that you made four or five attempts and moved on to the next person.” It can take months to track someone down, only to have him reject the offer, Mr. Bocanegra said, adding: “You come back again the next week. You say: ‘When you’re ready, I am here. But in the meantime, I’m going to continue to connect with you and see what needs you have.’ It might be homelessness, or substance abuse issues. We find out and support them with social services.” Monica Bhatt, research director at the University of Chicago’s Crime Lab, which is evaluating Readi, said the expectation had been that about 25 to 30 percent of the people contacted would join the program. But Ms. Bhatt and Mr. Bocanegra said that it’s now clear that the initial estimate was much too low. Mr. Bocanegra said that so far, 60 percent of those contacted have been signing up. I asked Mr. Phillips why someone selling drugs or involved in other criminal activity on the street would want a minimum-wage job. He snorted. “Some of them are just penny-ante thieves,” he said. “And if they are taking a pay cut, well, at least they’re being paid.” (The economics of drug dealing were analyzed by the sociologist Sudhir Venkatesh and described in the book “Freakonomics” in a chapter called “Why Do Drug Dealers Still Live With Their Moms?” The answer is that while being a drug boss paid quite well, selling crack on the street corner paid about $3.30 an hour.) So maybe the better question is the opposite one: If you’re making $3.30 an hour, with a very high chance of death or injury, why not go get a real job? Mr. Phillips had one interesting answer. He said that he recently invited a friend to see one of his comedy shows downtown. “I don’t do this,” the friend said. “You don’t go to comedy shows?” asked Mr. Phillips. “I don’t go downtown,” the friend replied. This is fear, Mr. Phillips told me. While you might not go to the next block if a rival gang controls it, venturing downtown evokes a different kind of fear: “They’re scared of looking stupid,” he said. That kind of fear is a big deterrent to getting a job. If you’ve never had one, and don’t know many people who have, you might not know how to behave. What if you make a dumb mistake and someone laughs? And for many, a job just seems out of reach. “I’m out on parole and I got three felonies. Some have mental issues, a lot have tattoos on their face,” was how Charon Jones, an outreach worker, described the mentality. Maybe there’s a problem with drugs or alcohol. Who’s going to give them a job, they wonder. And now here are Mr. Philips and Ms. Jones, looking for them. “No one ever knocked on their door before to ask them if they wanted a job,” said Ms. Jones. Readi’s goal is to gradually make its clients employable, starting wherever they are. “We’re not asking them to take a drug test or put on a suit and tie,” said Nicholette Phillips, another outreach worker. (Getting off drugs comes in the second phase.) “We’re just asking them to show up and participate.” Or — not. “You miss a day, you can come back,” said Joyce Edwards, also an outreach worker. “A lot do one day and decide they don’t want to come back, then three months later they come back. We’re all about second, third and fourth chances.” For many of the men, the lure of the streets is really the lure of their friends. Kejuan, a 24-year-old who started in the Readi program in April, said that although he was picking up trash, “there will be other jobs. Right now, I’m learning people skills — listening before I speak, getting along with different people with different backgrounds.” His friends? “They don’t understand,” he said. “They think they need to be in the streets right now, like they’d be missing something. The streets are always gonna be there.” But Kejuan is proof that the pull also works the other way. Ms. Phillips said Kejuan was a leader others wanted to emulate — a prize catch for Readi. “My phone constantly rings because he’s in the program,” she said. The outreach workers said that for many participants, the program offers prestige. When they’re working, the men wear a standard fluorescent yellow-green mesh road-crew vest. “The vest symbolizes prosperity. It legitimizes them,” said Mr. Lovett. I was driving with him and Ms. Phillips. When we stopped, Mr. Lovett got one out of his trunk and brandished it. “The coveted vest,” he said. “Some of them keep it on all the time,” said Ms. Phillips. “The vest is a badge of honor,” said Mr. Lovett. “There are people who wear their vest at a party.” Still, even more difficult than recruiting participants is helping them stay in the program, and then to get and keep a real job. Mr. Bocanegra summed up this way what one participant told him about his worries: “The street has taught me so much in 25 years. Prisons have taught me so much. “You’re expecting of me that in my 18 months I will change myself. I’m in it to win it. But I hope you understand.”