Bret Stephens: Hallo from Berlin, Gail. The weather’s perfect, the cabdrivers are friendly and you could eat off the floor of the train station (and probably not regret it). Just like New York City. I’ve been thinking a lot about John McCain. His political hero, Teddy Roosevelt, believed the good life should be lived “in the arena,” and even now he seems to be living that creed to its fullest. He’s still a force in the Senate, he has a new book and he’s planning his own funeral (like his other hero, Winston Churchill). The president is not invited. Your thoughts? Gail Collins: I’ve been thinking about the first time McCain ran for president in 2000. It was the absolute best political event I ever covered. Not sure it was entirely a race, since he was up in New Hampshire for months and months all by himself, just going to town meetings and talking about campaign-finance reform. Bret: The best political hour and the most tedious political subject. Go on. Gail:  It was what everybody imagines an underdog campaign would be like — a few reporters and the candidate, driving around in a bus, telling jokes, talking about issues, and of course arguing about where to eat dinner that night. But it was also a crusade — McCain thought if you reformed the way politicians raised money to run for office you could change the world. And he won! New Hampshire that is. Went on down to South Carolina for the next big primary and everything changed. He was actually a pretty terrible front-runner. Lost the primary, lost the nomination. Went back to the Senate and passed that campaign finance law, which was pretty much destroyed by the Supreme Court. So I can’t say there was a happy ending. But there was certainly a moment. Bret: I got to know him through his yearly jaunts to the Munich Security Conference. Gail: See, that’s the difference between us. You got to know him at the Munich Security Conference and I got to know him at the Hampstead Town Hall. Bret: There was usually a side trip to some embattled country — Lithuania one year, Tunisia another — where McCain would try to buck up the democratic reformers. In Munich he was fond of a particular Bavarian beer hall to which he’d invite journalists for rounds of schnapps and the type of brutal political candor you’d die to get on the record. But there was always a seriousness of purpose, and a quality of self-deprecation, and a basic decency to everything he did. His best public moment, as far as I’m concerned, is when he publicly corrected a woman in the heat of the 2008 campaign who called Barack Obama “an Arab.” He might have been able to demagogue his way to victory that year, just as Donald Trump did eight years later. He was better than that. Gail: His talents were much better used as a senator than as a presidential candidate. And I’m glad that his last big political moment was that vote last year against destroying the Affordable Care Act, and giving Donald Trump the political equivalent of a middle finger. Since we’re talking about a great senator, is there anybody coming up right now who you could imagine as the next John McCain? The next Ted Kennedy or Margaret Chase Smith? I’m running out of names here. Rescue me before I ask you who might turn out to be the next Lincoln Chafee. Bret: Among Republicans, the most promising senator is Nebraska’s Ben Sasse. He’s smart, interesting, young and profoundly opposed to the president. I also like Oklahoma’s James Lankford, who is smart on foreign policy subjects. Democrats: Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire and Michael Bennet of Colorado, purple-state politicians with crossover appeal. You? Gail: I have to admit my favorite Republican is Jeff Flake, although the qualities that appeal to me may be the same ones that made him realize he could never get re-elected in Arizona. For the middle, maybe Angus King of Maine. For the Dems, I’m going to avoid people who look to be running for president and throw my vote to Patty Murray of Washington. I feel as if we’ve gone on for a record amount of time without dwelling on President Trump. Tell me what you think are the best and worst things he’s done in the last week. We can’t conceivably cover them all, so just toss me a few thoughts. Bret: By the standards of this administration, Trump had a very good week: the return of the hostages from North Korea, the setting of a date and place for his summit with Kim Jong-un, the move of the U.S. embassy in Israel to Jerusalem, and the withdrawal from the awful Iran nuclear deal, which fulfilled a campaign promise. I’m happy about the first, deeply skeptical about the second, moved by the third and tentatively pleased by the last — our readers, I know, will have their own views — but the optics are good for the president. No wonder his poll numbers are up. Gail: You can guess how I feel about Iran. Breaking the deal, which the Iranians were living up to, was insane. Worst thing he’s done. Bret: Yes! We disagree. Go on. Gail: On North Korea, fingers crossed. We spend half our life saying, “If Barack Obama had (fill in the blank) like Trump did, the right wing would have gone insane,” so I think we have to admit that if Barack Obama had gotten this far with North Korea, we’d be dancing in the streets. Bret: But then the administration won’t formally apologize for the White House aide Kelly Sadler’s appalling “He’s dying anyway” comment about McCain’s opposition to the nomination of Gina Haspel as C.I.A. director, and the president launched a tirade against Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, nearly causing her to resign. And that followed Trump’s musings about the need to close the country entirely to new arrivals. Why not replace the Statue of Liberty with a brand-new Trump casino and resort while he’s at it? Gail: The stunning thing to me about that Sadler-McCain thing was that it got leaked. The fact that in private conversation, presidential aides occasionally make deeply offensive wisecracks about the opposition (and McCain at that moment was the opposition) isn’t exactly shocking. But that it immediately got out was sort of amazing. Bret: Even by Washington standards, it was a stunner. Gail: I am professionally in favor of leaks, of course. But I do find the way everybody in the White House appears to be out to destroy everybody else mind-boggling. That said, if the president had the least shred of decency he’d have said something to make it clear he didn’t approve of what Sadler said. I suspect the reason he didn’t is that he did approve of what Sadler said. No wonder the McCains don’t want him at the funeral. Bret: I’d be surprised if Trump offered anything that sounded even remotely like an apology. His consistent take on McCain is that the senator is a loser. Gets shot down, is a prisoner of war, fails to win the presidency. And that’s a view shared by the Trumpified G.O.P., which has given up on McCain’s old-fashioned concepts of virtue and honor to a cause in favor of the ethics of whatever-it-takes. The other day, I read a column by Bill Bennett denouncing George Will for criticizing Mike Pence’s praise for the felon Joe Arpaio — and for using the word “oleaginous.” This would be the same Bill Bennett who used to obsess over things like declining educational standards and the loss of civic virtue. Which can only mean that everything Bennett used to say was insincere, or everything he says now is insincere. He’s another reason I no longer think of myself as a Republican. Gail: Not fair, Bret. If we’re going to argue, you have to at least regard yourself as a Republican in exile. What would it take to get you back? Not the perfect world — bare minimum. Bret: Trump out of office. Sincere Republican penance for electing this lout as our president and debasing our collective moral currency. Even if this lout sometimes does things that, through gritted teeth, I have to admit I like. Gail: Since some of the things you like are the things I hate most (Iraniraniraniran …) I have confidence we’ll be able to argue well into the next administration. So there’s some sunlight, even now. Bret: That assumes there will be another administration. You’ve always been an optimist, Gail.