BUENOS AIRES — The Argentine stand-up comic Malena Pichot has a bit where she excoriates those who oppose legalizing abortion. The joke — if you could call it that — is about how much their stance willfully devalues women. They “hate women so much,” she says, “despise them so, that they identify more with an embryo smaller than a grain of rice. They have more empathy with this than with a whole woman, about to get an abortion in an illegal place and maybe die.” (Unfortunately, it’s not much funnier in the original Spanish.) At this time last year, hardly anyone could have predicted that discussions of when a group of cells could be considered a baby, or the number of women dying from clandestine abortions, would be dominating Argentine headlines. And yet they are: Lawmakers are preparing to debate several bills that would legalize abortion within the first 14 weeks of pregnancy. The lower chamber of Congress is expected to vote on the issue next month. Passage would make Argentina the most populous country in Latin America to permit women to terminate pregnancies, in a region that skews toward absolute prohibition. That Argentina could suddenly become a regional beacon for choice is surprising. The past decade or so has ushered in a series of progressive reforms in the country, such as gay marriage, trans rights and sexual education policies. But abortion, before this spring, was off the table — a combination of lack of political will and opposition from the influential Roman Catholic Church, fighting on Pope Francis’ home turf. The topic became unexpectedly up for discussion in March, however, when conservative President Mauricio Macri opened Congress with an invitation to lawmakers to debate the issue — though he made sure to add the face-saving caveat that he himself is strictly “in favor of life.” Surprised and cynical commentators chalked up Mr. Macri’s move to political calculus: An abortion debate might help distract from Argentina’s economic woes, such as surging inflation, and wildly unpopular tariff increases for utilities and transportation. But it may have also been made with an eye on shifting public opinion. Several polls indicate that a majority of the population now supports decriminalizing abortion, with a higher percentage among younger voters and those with higher levels of education. Abortion crosses major party lines in Argentina, and the issue was increasingly visible in the months before Mr. Macri’s announcement. The national plunge into the abortion debate also follows almost three years of unprecedentedly public activism on the part of Argentine women, gathered under the banner of a group called Ni Una Menos (Not One Less). Ni Una Menos started with a 2015 protest against a growing wave of femicides that claimed the lives of 235 women that year. The original march was sparked by the murder of a pregnant 14-year-old by her teenage boyfriend, who buried her in his grandparents’ courtyard. The narrative is typical, though the gory specifics vary. The movement began as a response to the murders of hundreds of women and girls, but activists quickly argued that stopping femicide also requires targeting the machista mind-set that fuels it, a culture in which femicides are traditionally considered crimes of passion and perpetrators can justify them with allusions to real or suspected infidelity. Suddenly hundreds of thousands of women began calling for legislative and policy reforms to penalize gender-based violence, provide support for victims and develop education aimed at eradication. Abortion quickly became a key demand as well. On March 8, International Women’s Day, at least 350,000 people gathered in Buenos Aires to demand legalization of abortion and free access to it in public hospitals. The campaign has focused on a pragmatic argument: that making abortions illegal doesn’t dissuade women from having them — it just makes them more likely to die from them. Clandestine abortions are the leading cause of maternal mortality in Argentina, which is incongruously high given the country’s level of development. Experts believe 500,000 take place annually, and ensuing complications killed an estimated 43 women last year. Abortions are technically permitted in cases of rape and danger to the pregnant woman’s health in Argentina, but in reality, obstacles such as rampant use of “conscientious objector” laws, which allow doctors and hospitals to refuse to provide these procedures, makes access even under these circumstances extremely limited. The example of a young mother of three who in 2007 was refused an early abortion that she needed to receive cancer treatment is emblematic. She died, as did the baby. Should Argentina legalize abortion, the country would become an anomaly in a region where conservative approaches dominate — and where violence against women remains rampant. In El Salvador, abortion is absolutely criminalized in all cases, even when a pregnant woman’s life is endangered. Cases are ruthlessly prosecuted, and in some instances, women have received decades-long prison sentences on charges of aggravated homicide. El Salvador also has the highest femicide rate in the world; Latin American countries dominate the top 10 with the highest femicide rates. Except for Uruguay, where legal termination until the 12th week of pregnancy has nearly eradicated deaths from unsafe abortions, regional headway on the issue has been negligible. Chile legalized abortion in extremely limited circumstances last year, but government regulations are already undermining access. In Brazil right-wing lawmakers are pushing for a total ban. And in El Salvador attempts to permit abortion in life-threatening circumstances were stymied last month. Snarky commentators say it’s easy to oppose femicides, because nobody defends them. Ms. Pichot’s joke cuts to the hypocrisy underlying that vision, because a society that doesn’t recognize women’s bodies as their own is precisely one where they can be killed with impunity. The most important of the eight bills under consideration in the Chamber of Deputies has been presented periodically by a coalition of activist organizations since 2007. Each bill has lost parliamentary status without reaching the floor. It’s not clear how the June vote will go. Estimates show a slight majority against legalization in the lower chamber and a larger majority against in the Senate, but undecided lawmakers could still swing the vote. That would do little for the 300 women murdered in Argentina last year, but it would do much to say that their deaths, and the entirely preventable deaths of other women, were not acceptable.