For whom is sex more pleasurable, men or women? And if you had to, which would you forgo for a year, sex — or bacon? The answers depend not only on whom you ask, but also on what you mean exactly by sex (and how you feel about bacon). As someone who’s had sex both as a man and as a woman — I’m trans, of course — I can probably shed some light on this debate myself, even though there are times, given the complexity of the journey, I’d rather have been spared some of this insight. It’s the story of my life: always the experiment, never the control. To explore these questions, I consulted two dependable sources: modern science and Greek mythology. First, let’s look at the legend of Tiresias — the prophet who, as the result of an altercation with some magical snakes, was transformed into a woman for seven years. Some time later, Zeus and Hera asked Tiresias to settle a dispute over the question of who had more pleasure during sex. When Tiresias replied that sex was nine times better for women than men, Hera was so enraged that she blinded him. Zeus, feeling a little bad about the situation, gave Tiresias the consolation prizes of prophecy and long life. The thing that has always confused me about this story is the fact that Zeus and Hera were so certain that it was the opposite sex, and not their own, that was having more fun. And yet this story is echoed anecdotally in the experiences of so many people that I know: We’re so often convinced that the person with the bigger smile is someone other than ourselves. How come? This was the question that led me to get coffee with Helene Foley, a classics professor at Columbia and Barnard. “The Greeks believed that women’s bodies made them prone to instability,” she told me. “Men, by contrast, were thought physically, emotionally and rationally more stable and prided themselves in their self-control. Hera might have been angry because Tiresias’ conclusion could be seen to confirm women’s susceptibility to pleasure and lack of control.” Pleasure is about a whole lot more than orgasms, to be sure. But as a great video from AsapScience makes clear, orgasm is indeed about loss of control, in the very best way, for both men and women. During climax the lateral orbitofrontal cortex shuts down — the very part of the brain that controls reason and self-evaluation. There are big differences in male and female orgasm, though: female orgasm is longer — over 20 seconds, on average, compared to three to 10 seconds for men. And men have more orgasms — reaching climax in 95 percent of their encounters, compared to 69 percent for women. Another major factor, when it comes to the measure of pleasure, is the type of sex that’s being had: straight men and gay men, for instance, have about the same number of orgasms. Lesbians, meanwhile, have about 20 percent more than straight women — perhaps because lesbian sex tends to go on longer (30 to 45 minutes for the average lesbian couple, compared to 15 to 30 minutes for straight ones). As for me, I have almost 20 years of female orgasm under my belt now (since transition), and before that I had an equal number of years of having male ones. Without going into detail, I can attest that the experiences are distinct. Sometimes I think of it as the difference between Spanish and Italian. Sure, they’re similar. But jeez, che differenza! Still, sex is less important to me than love. This was true when I was a boy of 15, and it’s true now as a woman of 59. Then, as now, all I wanted was to desire, and to be desired. I might be the experiment, rather than the control, but I’m not alone in that feeling. A recent poll found eight things Americans would rather have than sex, if they had to give up one for a year, among them a good night’s sleep, their cellphones, their youth and, yes, bacon. I could probably survive without bacon, for one, but in my life — as is the case for most men and women — love and sex are mysteriously wrapped together, like the pair of entwined, enchanted snakes that transformed Tiresias, or like two versions of a single image, reflected in a funhouse mirror. John Barth’s great short story “Lost in the Funhouse” plaintively asks, “For whom is the funhouse fun?” And suggests an answer: “Perhaps for lovers.” By the final page of the story, though, having gotten himself good and lost, that story’s lovesick protagonist reflects on the glittering, confusing world that now lies before him. “He wishes he had never entered the funhouse,” Mr. Barth writes. “But he has. He wishes he were dead. But he’s not. Therefore, he will construct funhouses for others and be their secret operator — though he would rather be among the lovers for whom funhouses are designed.”