In 2016, after years of broken promises, deceptive recruiting practices and exponential growth in the for-profit college sector, things seemed to be changing for the better. Spurred by the creation of a unit in the Department of Education devoted to cracking down on predatory institutions, and the announcement of new protections for students, some of the biggest names in the industry voluntarily ended some of their most egregious practices or shut down, while others reached sweeping settlements with the government. Today, that investigative unit, which I helped create, is virtually dead. Its members have largely been assigned to other tasks by an Education Department that includes an alarming number of executives from those very same for-profit schools. The unit is the latest casualty of an administration that seems to think that big corporations need protection from consumers, rather than the other way around. In 2013, I took a job as a lawyer for the Education Department. Soon after, I started working with the California attorney general’s office to investigate fraud at Corinthian Colleges, based in Santa Ana. We learned the situation was worse than could be imagined at this publicly traded for-profit chain, which at the time was the beneficiary of more than $1 billion a year in federal student loans and grants. We heard of students recruited out of homeless shelters with false promises of jobs, and of others stashed in temporary jobs for less than a week so that the school could include them in the job placement rate it had to disclose to regulators and prospective students. These students would go on to amass student loan debt that their bleak job prospects would never help them repay. Under President Barack Obama, the government stepped in to effectively force a shutdown of Corinthian and other schools like ITT Technical Institute. But Corinthian was just the tip of the iceberg. Its shady practices were representative of widespread fraud and abuse in the for-profit college industry, which, in the fall of 2015, enrolled some 1.6 million students. There were numerous other examples of institutions, for-profit, public and nonprofit, that needed greater scrutiny. Consider what happened at the for-profit DeVry University. Murray Hastie, an Iraq war veteran suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, was aggressively recruited by DeVry. Mr. Hastie was told that his G.I. Bill benefits would cover all of his tuition, in addition to giving him a monthly living stipend. However, he later learned DeVry was saddling him with more than $50,000 in student loans. When his P.T.S.D. worsened, Mr. Hastie left the school and sought treatment at a V.A. hospital. After leaving the hospital, he recounted in a forthcoming documentary, “Fail State,” he tried to enroll at his local community college, but found that all of his G.I. benefits had been exhausted. When I joined the Education Department, it did not have a division dedicated to investigating the fraudulent consumer practices pervading many for-profit campuses. While a hardworking compliance team monitored school finances and student eligibility, we needed people specializing in consumer protection. In 2016, the Education Secretary at the time, John King, had had enough. He told us to recruit consumer protection experts, experienced lawyers and investigators to set up a new enforcement office dedicated to combating consumer malfeasance in the education sector. We did, and were soon reaching out to Republican and Democratic attorneys general and working with other federal agencies to bring cases to protect students and taxpayers. As we cracked down, institutions began to change their practices. Some for-profit college chains announced limitations on the percentages of revenue that would come from federal student aid and agreed to drop clauses in enrollment paperwork that restricted the ability of students to file lawsuits. But the change was short-lived. I left the Education Department last year. I have watched in dismay what has happened since. After Ms. DeVos took over, she hired several executives from the same for-profit institutions that the department was investigating. Former employees of Bridgepoint Education and Career Education Corporation, which both run for-profit colleges that were reportedly under investigation, are now working for her. Investigations into those colleges seem to have been dropped. A former DeVry dean supervised the very unit that is now being dismantled. At the same time, Secretary DeVos is also trying to bar students and state attorneys general from suing for-profit student loan servicers. And at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Mick Mulvaney has weakened the office assigned to protect students from financial abuse. Predatory colleges are being given a green light to return to their abusive ways. The message to millions of Americans lured by the false promises of predatory companies is clear: The Trump administration is not on your side.