Like many sports fans, I define eras of my own life by the sports superstars who dominated them. In high school, it was Joe Montana; in college, Michael Jordan; post-college, Barry Bonds. Their career arcs become our story lines and plots that unfurl over many happy, occasionally anxious, years. Today’s biggest superstar is LeBron James, who’s so big he can call the president “you bum” and barely get an angry tweet in response. James is the transcendent star of this era. Yet he is in trouble. It’s all because of what I call the fallacy of the superstar. James’s Cleveland Cavaliers have fallen behind the Boston Celtics 2-0 in their Eastern Conference Finals matchup. This despite the fact that during the season, the Celtics lost their two best players, Kyrie Irving and Gordon Heyward, to injury. A loss in the series would be nearly unprecedented for James; in his past seven seasons, in both Cleveland and Miami, his teams reached an absurd seven consecutive N.B.A. finals. Three ended with James hoisting the Larry O’Brien championship trophy. This one looks extremely dicey. Teams have gone down 2-0 in their series 300 times in N.B.A. history, and only 19 have come back to win them. (Further evidence of James’s greatness: Two of them were his teams. Yes, he’s that extraordinary.) But James has perhaps less talent around him than he has had in a decade, and he’s beginning to show the strain, visibly gasping at the end of long nights carrying the full load for his sagging team. If this is his last season in Cleveland, as many N.B.A. observers suspect, his “I’m Coming Home” tour will end in discord, exhaustion and defeat. It’s red alert time. What’s strange, and unusually frustrating, about this is that LeBron James is having the best year of his career. James — who very well might be the best basketball player who has ever lived — has never been better than he is right now. He has scored 40 points five times this postseason, the highest of his career, one of which was also a triple double. He notched a career high in both average rebounds and assists this season, with his highest scoring average in eight years. He played all 82 games for the first time, and led the N.B.A. in minutes played per game for the second consecutive year. His Value Over Replacement Player, a statistic he is already the all-time leader in, was the highest in the N.B.A. this year, the first time he’d done that since 2013. This is peak LeBron. But it sure doesn’t feel that way right now, does it? For all the “Saturday Night Live” jokes about how James’s teammates are anonymous extras in the saga that is LeBron — “our point guard is a Roomba!” — if the Cavaliers lose to the Celtics, no one will say “Kevin Love falls short.” They’ll say LeBron James did. In 10 years, you won’t remember that Jordan Clarkson and Rodney Hood ever even played for the Cavaliers, but you’ll remember the year that James couldn’t keep his N.B.A. finals streak going. History has a way of remembering this as solely on the shoulders of the boldface name. This failure will be James’s. And that is the fallacy of the superstar, the tendency we have to frame team defeats as the fault of the best player rather than all the inferior teammates beside him, whose fault it (obviously) is in the first place. It’s basic illogic, the tendency to focus on the front-facing star’s mistakes rather than the countless more made by lesser players with obvious limitations. (It would be like blaming a star city reporter at a newspaper for a box score error in the sports section, or your brilliant physics professor for a declining graduation rate.) It won’t be James’s fault if the Cavaliers lose; it will be Jeff Green’s, Larry Nance Jr.’s and George Hill’s. Without James, this Cavaliers team would be one of the five worst in the N.B.A. With him, they’re a step away from the finals. I wonder if this, like so much about athletic superstar culture, can be traced back to Michael Jordan. He was an incredible player, obviously, but one of his most impressive skills was his ability to persuade everyone around him that his team’s success was entirely a product of his own will and fortitude. Jordan’s six championships were won alongside Hall of Famer Scottie Pippen (Dennis Rodman, another Hall of Famer, joined them for three), coached by the man who has won more N.B.A. titles than any coach in the history of the sport, and all coincided with Jordan’s prime: When Jordan was at his best, his supporting cast was at its best. James’s prime is giving him no such advantage; one shudders to think how Jordan would have reacted if he realized his only option was passing the ball to Jose Calderon. But because Jordan made us all believe that his titles were his and his alone, a Cavaliers’ loss feels like a James loss. The upside of this is the spoils; if the Cavaliers somehow come back from this deficit and defeat the Celtics, we’ll all credit James solely. (And rightly.) But the boom-and-bust nature of watching sports, the beautiful simplicity of being happy when your team wins and sad when it loses, can’t help landing unfairly on James’s back anytime he doesn’t pull off the impossible. If James’s point guard actually were a Roomba, we’d all acknowledge it as a bit of a problem for him. But we’d still expect him to hit the winning shot … and we wouldn’t blame the Roomba if he didn’t. We’d blame him.