It is graduation season. Many high school graduates will soon experience the excitement (and the pressure) that comes with transitioning to college. This weekend, we wanted to share some of our favorite pieces on campus life. What would you say to graduates about how they can make the most of their college years? Tell us in the comments. Susan Shapiro, a writing professor at the New School in Manhattan, was the type of mediocre student she now disdains. Here’s what she wishes she had done differently. Technological connectedness has made it much harder for college students to make mistakes and learn from them. We seem to expect them to arrive at school fully formed. When they let us down by being just what they are — young humans — we shame them. Time abroad leaves one more aware of the complex prism of suspicion through which the United States is often viewed, Nicholas Kristof wrote in 2014. If more Americans had overseas experience, our foreign policy might be wiser. “In the field, I watched students descend into their own darkness, depression gripping them, and I watched as they emerged from it, stronger and more grounded,” a former college professor wrote.  Our opinion columnist Frank Bruni knows a lot about surviving college admissions madness, and he has also written about the loneliness that some students experience once they get to school. What happens when, in a sea of people, they find themselves adrift?  It may not be on any syllabus, but college has always been a time for young people to learn about relationships and sex. As the internet increasingly influences the ways we interact, it also transforms how students date and find partners. “I sometimes think I went to the wrong college. By many measures — most of them financial — my choice to attend Cornell was not the smartest one.” This was one of our most popular pieces from 2015. Few people will probably opt to go this route, but it still makes for an interesting read: “I chose life. That is to say, I defaulted on my student loans. As difficult as it has been, I’ve never looked back. The millions of young people today, who collectively owe over $1 trillion in loans, may want to consider my example.” 