This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. First: When Americans today look back on the past, many of us wonder how our ancestors could have tolerated blatant injustices — like child labor, Jim Crow or male-only voting — for so long. When future generations look back on our era, I expect they will ask a similar question about mass imprisonment. They will wonder how the United States could have forcibly confined some two million of our fellow human beings to cages. My column this morning tells the story of the unjust imprisonment of a Mississippi man named Curtis Flowers. He has been tried six different times for one crime, and he is the subject of a riveting new podcast, the second season of “In the Dark,” from Madeleine Baran and a team of her colleagues at American Public Media. On related subjects: Emily Bazelon wrote in The Times magazine last year about Noura Jackson’s case, and Bazelon is now working on a book about prosecutors and criminal-justice reform. Nick Kristof wrote about Kevin Cooper’s case this weekend. The rule of law. President Trump’s attempts to turn federal law enforcement into an instrument of mere partisanship — rather than justice — reached a new level over the weekend. He said he would direct the Department of Justice to investigate whether the F.B.I. improperly spied on his campaign. Trump’s directive to open a politically motivated probe “could genuinely produce a crisis” for law enforcement, writes Benjamin Wittes of the Brookings Institution. “This is a nakedly corrupt attempt on the part of the President to derail an investigation of himself at the expense of a human source to whose protection the FBI and DOJ are committed.” Quinta Jurecic and Wittes go into more detail in this Lawfare article. Other presidents did nothing like this. Whether Republican or Democrat, they steered well clear of individual investigations, leaving those investigations to the professional — nonpolitical — judgment of Justice Department employees. “Our law is not an instrument of partisan purpose,” said Edward Levi, the Republican-appointed attorney general in the 1970s who helped create the modern Justice Department. The law, Levi said, cannot become “anyone’s weapon.” Trump has repeatedly trampled on this tradition — a tradition that’s vital to a well-functioning democracy. Without it, the law simply becomes a weapon for the powerful to use against the powerless, much as it is in an autocracy. The question now is whether Trump’s own Justice Department officials have the courage to buck him. The initial answer isn’t clear. Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, responded to Trump by asking the Justice Department watchdog to expand an existing probe of a government wiretap on a Trump campaign official. In doing so, Rosenstein seems to be trying to satisfy Trump without launching an actual criminal investigation. The Times said that Rosenstein “was trying to thread the needle,” while The Washington Post called it an effort to “avert a larger clash.” Some analysts remained optimistic that the Justice Department would do the right thing. “There are rules,” Georgetown Law’s Carrie Cordero tweeted, “and I’m convinced there are people left in this government who will follow them.” Other people were less sanguine. “Today Trump demanded a counter-investigation into the legitimate, lawfully-predicated DOJ probe of his campaign, based on no evidence of wrongdoing, solely to undermine the special counsel — and he got it,” wrote Matthew Miller, a former Justice Department official. “The system is failing.”