The main character of “The Pull” is John Bixby, a 29-year-old New Hampshire native whose exposure to prescribed painkillers at the age of 16 put him on the well-beaten path to opioid addiction. Husband, father of two, and occasional poet, John has been caught in a cycle of rehab and relapse ever since. As I filmed him, I captured an agonizing battle between his desire to use and his stiff but weakening resolve to stay clean. The suffering was immense; the film is a portrait of raw vulnerability and distress. Films that confront pain are films that confront a taboo; they make us uncomfortable. On the one hand, we respond to the content itself, to the visibility of something that we strive to eradicate or at least avoid; on the other, at least with a documentary, we also perceive the ethical question implicit in watching someone else’s suffering. This isn’t a replica, after all, but the real thing, and by choosing to watch, the audience is complicit in the director’s choices. Is our gaze authorized? Does the filmmaker ensure that the film doesn’t cross over from realism to voyeurism, and transform a legitimate portrait into exploitation? The subject matter of “The Pull” is intensely private, so we have to wonder whether we’re really permitted to witness this intimacy. But John’s vulnerability is precisely the film’s point. Addicts in the United States are largely treated as criminals, their identities reduced to legal charges and chemical doses. Addiction is seen as self-inflicted failure; the etiology is passed over in silence. Because the victims are the perpetrators, the supply of empathy is limited. As with any mass phenomenon, the national narrative bleaches out the individual. The point of “The Pull” is to restore three-dimensionality and incarnate the individual. Those ugly moments — moments of heartache, despondency, wretchedness — are not only symbolic of addiction in general, but also defining parts of John’s story. Through them, and through his poetry, John recaptures the narrative about his own suffering, and allows us to respond in the way that systemic criminalization of addiction doesn’t: with empathy and understanding.