This Friday, Irish voters will decide whether to change their constitution to legalize abortion during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. The debate itself contains few new arguments; instead it circles around a question most other European countries have asked themselves over the past 40 years: What is the proper balance between the mother’s right to self-determination and the unborn child’s right to life? But there’s another question, less about the substance of the issue and more about the campaign around it: In an era of global social media and well-funded foreign activists, what does it mean for a country to hold a vote at all? And if a democracy is no longer insulated from foreign influence, what integrity can any referendum claim? Forget hacking and illegal vote-buying. What’s happening in Ireland is more transparent, but also, for that reason, more troubling. The vote, Ireland’s fifth referendum in five years, is over whether to repeal the Eighth Amendment, which bans abortion except in cases where the mother’s life is in danger. For such a small country, the vote has attracted enormous global attention, perhaps because Ireland remains a bastion of Catholicism in Europe. But Ireland is also a place that should be relatively safe from outside influence. Given its long history in the shadow of Britain, the country has long held its sovereignty and self-determination especially dear. Also, as a relatively small country, voters are used to personally knowing their political representatives, who spend a lot of time campaigning door to door. Ireland also has rules and laws in place to check undue influence: The Broadcast Authority of Ireland ensures balanced reporting on radio and television, and many of the country’s major newspapers and magazines have followed. What’s more, it is illegal to take money from abroad for political purposes: The government has ordered Amnesty International Ireland to return 137,000 euros (about $160,000) donated by George Soros, the American billionaire, allegedly to promote the repeal of the Eighth Amendment. None of these safeguards, however, can protect Ireland when it comes to social media. And, in fact, Ireland’s experience is demonstrating just how vulnerable voters are to online influence. Abortion is, of course, an issue that is far from unique to Ireland; it is part of a larger cultural struggle, being fought around the world, over the conviction that liberalism has gone too far. For anyone in the world anxious to defend — or destroy — that status quo, the next battleground is Ireland. No wonder many Irish feel as comfortable in this referendum campaign as a fly under a magnifying glass. “Democracy for sale in social media’s Wild West,” wrote The Business Post on May 6, highlighting the latest findings of the Transparent Referendum Initiative, a group established to monitor social-media advertising before the vote. The group studied hundreds of Facebook users and the sorts of referendum-related ads that appeared in their feeds. Supporters of Dublin’s Gaelic football club were targeted by anti-abortion ads, while those who identify as customers of the city’s Brown Thomas department store would get pro-abortion ads. In many cases, those ads traced back to foreign activist groups, like Live Action and the Radiance Foundation, both American organizations. Or consider that Save the 8th, the most prominent organization against repealing the amendment, has hired a former online manager for the Brexit campaign in Britain, who used to work with Cambridge Analytica. John McGuirk, a spokesman for Save the 8th, rejected the notion that there was anything amiss in such cross-border activism, or in using data analysis to microtarget voters. But he also warned that outside activists might have limited success in a place like Ireland. “They think what works in Alabama will work here,” he told me. “It doesn’t. I wish they’d leave.” He also said that the growing concern in Ireland over foreign influence was a diversion. “The media and the yes side are so obsessed with the online ads, because when the political establishment loses, they will need an explanation for the defeat,” he said. Days after our meeting, Google announced that it would ban all referendum advertising from its platforms, including YouTube, to safeguard what a company spokesman called “election integrity,” a decision that Mr. McGuirk and other pro-life campaigners were quick to denounce. Facebook has announced similar limits. Calls are growing in Ireland for new regulations on social-media advertising targeted at voters, but if anything is done, it will come too late for this Friday’s vote. In any event, experienced campaigners on both sides here believe they will win or lose the argument the old-fashioned way: walking the neighborhood, knocking on people’s doors, engaging in real-life conversation and showing how much politicians and campaigners actually care about their cause. Let’s hope they’re right.