KABUL, Afghanistan — Last Wednesday, the Afghan government apologized to the families of 30 children and six civilian adults who were killed in  air force strikes in the northeastern part of the country. The government claimed that the attack also killed at least 18 high-ranking Taliban fighters. The brief apology came 44 days after machine-gun and rocket fire brought a violent end to a ceremony honoring children who had memorized the Quran and nine days after the United Nations released a damning report questioning Kabul’s “respect of the rules of precaution and proportionality under international humanitarian law.” The text of the apology reveals the chasm between the rulers and the ruled, the center and the periphery: The families of the 36 civilian victims remain unnamed — common nouns rather than real people struggling with grief and loss. It does not offer justice nor promise greater caution and deliberation from Kabul. It attempts to offer the self-serving consolation that the Afghan government is better than the Taliban by saying, “The key difference between the government and insurgents is that a legitimate government will always seek forgiveness for mistakes.” The “mistake” that the apology refers to occurred on April 2 in the village of Daftani in the Dasht-e-Archi district of Kunduz Province. Scores of children were being honored at a madrasa for completing their memorization of the Quran. As part of an old Afghan tradition, elders would tie turbans on the heads of the children, a ritual called “dastar bandi.” Dasht-e-Archi is a vast barren landscape, where 90,000 people make a living from subsistence agriculture and trade with neighboring Tajikistan. Though the United Nations has labeled the district free of poppy cultivation since 2006, its proximity to the Tajikistan border makes it a vital transit point for the trafficking of drugs and other illicit goods. The Taliban also dominate the district, a striking example of an area deemed too distant and too difficult for Kabul and the regional government in Kunduz to manage. It is a place where drug mafias and armed groups fill the void, and the population is ignored by the politicians. Samihullah, a flower shop worker who like many Afghans uses one name, transported bouquets of bright plastic flowers to the madrasa to be given to teachers and students after the ceremony. Around noon, as the ceremony was drawing to a close, the sky above was filled with the roar of three or four helicopters. Then came the deafening sound of machine gun fire, and bullets hit the students, teachers and guests. As they tried to flee the madrasa, rockets were fired from the helicopters. After two rockets exploded over a two-story structure attached to the madrasa building, Nematullah, a madrasa teacher, heard an announcement from overhead: “Don’t be frightened. Do not run. Remain calm. You are not our targets.” As it happened, a group of Taliban fighters had gathered about 80 feet away in another building. Two rockets hit the Taliban fighters. But, witnesses say, the fire from the helicopters killed and wounded numerous civilians who were in their homes and in the wheat fields surrounding the madrasa. Mr. Nematullah, the teacher, said he suffered minor injuries as he ran out before two more rockets hit the site of the graduation ceremony, where most of the students were killed. Saif-ur-Rahman, 40, a villager, was standing outside a shop about three miles from the madrasa when he heard the gunfire and explosions. Mr. Saif-ur-Rahman remembered that three of his cousins, including Mr. Samihullah, the flower seller, were at the madrasa. After several attempts, he reached a cousin on his phone. “There has been an attack,” the cousin said. “We can’t find Samihullah.” When Mr. Saif-ur-Rahman arrived at the madrasa, he saw scraps of the ceremonial turbans and slippers and shoes scattered among the bloodied bodies. The villagers took the injured to nearby clinics and pharmacies in taxis and rickshaws and on motorbikes. Mr. Saif-ur-Rahman found Mr. Samihullah in a clinic in the village, which wasn’t equipped to treat the fractures in his arms and legs. He moved Mr. Samihullah to a hospital in Kunduz, about 45 miles away. By the end of the week, he and several others would be transported by helicopter to Kabul. As the word of the attack spread, current and former Afghan officials and other influential figures took a celebratory tone, emphasizing the deaths of the Taliban fighters and ignoring the deaths of the students. Their remarks illustrated how that for certain segments of Afghan society — talking heads, workers for nongovernmental organizations and the government — a victim is a victim only when killed by the Taliban and the Islamic State. Thus prominent Afghans were rationalizing the killings of Afghan children by the Afghan government in pursuit of the Taliban. The civilians killed in operations by the Afghan government and international coalition are simply an unfortunate byproduct of war, as if the children in that madrasa had willingly sacrificed themselves for some imagined greater good. As the details surrounding the civilian deaths began to surface, some social media accounts — some based in Afghanistan, others in Western cities — lashed out at anyone who questioned the official narrative and pointed out that civilians were killed in the attack. Some of these accounts belonged to former government officials, others to journalists, while the rest were anonymous and suddenly popped up in the feeds of anyone who raised questions about civilian casualties. People who had reported or discussed the civilian casualties online were told that the civilian deaths are “another example of how Taliban use civilians as human shields.” Some claimed that the photographs of children killed were inventions by Pakistan, which is seeking to turn the Afghans against their military. Shortly after the strikes, the Kabul government admitted to civilian casualties in a vague statement that implicitly praised the professionalism of the Afghan security forces and gave no sense that they also killed scores of children. Newspaper headlines in the region and beyond followed the same pattern: The children were barely mentioned, and the Taliban received the top billing. There is a long history of civilian killings in Afghan military operations, especially in parts of the country far from the capital. The cold and formulaic response by President Ashraf Ghani and his cheerleaders is bound to feed more anger and disaffection. To stop ordinary Afghans from turning further away from Kabul, Mr. Ghani needs to do more than offer weak apologies. He needs to promise justice and accountability.