I recently heard a young, successful writer admit that though she knew it was wrong, she had a place in her heart for Philip Roth. One of the greatest American novelists of the past several decades (along with Don DeLillo and Toni Morrison), Mr. Roth died on Tuesday, and like many readers of fiction I’ve been thinking about his legacy, including what we might mean when we say it’s “wrong” to like him. It’s fair to say I’m one of those “certain other readers” mentioned in a recent appraisal of Mr. Roth who considers “Sabbath’s Theater” his finest achievement. Mr. Roth once described his process this way: “I dig a hole and shine my flashlight into it.” If this is the case, “Sabbath’s Theater,” the story of a bitter, priapic, lust-wrecked puppeteer named Mickey Sabbath, is Mr. Roth’s deepest, darkest hole. Mickey Sabbath is a relic from the 1960s, when the understandable urge to break free of hypocritical and oppressive sexual mores gave license to some to trample on the rights and dignity of others. One person’s free love might, often enough, have been another’s date rape. Sabbath is the straight white male Id (Jewish division) in all its horror, but he’s also a genuine human, flawed, frightened and quasi-noble in his absurd resilience, his ability to weather storms of enormous grief and disappointment. The book is a study in what today, in the wake of the Me Too movement, would get called “toxic masculinity.” The escapades of another of Mr. Roth’s protagonists, Alexander Portnoy — including his liaison with a slab of liver behind a billboard — caused a furor in their time, one that for a long period after seemed rather quaint. But a new raw anger has emerged, one that perhaps puts the entire project of exploring toxic masculinity in a new light. Some have argued quite compellingly that we don’t need any more stories about the heterosexual male psyche, no more depictions of male characters, as Mr. Roth explained it in a recent interview, “each as he behaves, aroused, stimulated, hungry in the grip of carnal fervor and facing the array of psychological and ethical quandaries the exigencies of desire present.” There are so many other stories to be told. Why lavish so much attention on such a diseased soul as Mickey Sabbath, a would-be grand-scale oppressor held back only by his professional failure (he turned down the role of Big Bird), and in doing so, end up celebrating him? Quick replies might arrive from both directions. Some would affirm that we don’t need any more songs of “tumescent men,” as Mr. Roth once referred to his subject. Case closed. Others might object that the very fact that we are discussing literature in these “politically correct” terms means we are shunning nuance, honesty, moral ambiguity. But both stances may miss important points. One is that patriarchy is a bad deal for most everyone. While men may suffer the least, that’s not to say the system doesn’t crush them as well. Art like Mr. Roth’s that can explore how social norms about gender and sexuality deform a large percentage of our population and mire it in violence, rage, shame and a kind of zombie-fied eroticism will be valuable for as long as this warped setup exists. Second, the conventional wisdom of a society is always shifting (like the aforementioned change in some people’s view of sexual liberation), and we need our writers to keep chronicling the transformations. Mr. Roth’s main theme was not so much sex but the idea of the individual in America, the immigrant or striver, the kid straining against the confines of the kind of appropriate behavior elders consider linked to success. A possibly immature but exuberant carnality was rebellion against conformity. Obviously that formulation doesn’t convince anymore. But our darkest drives, and our most conflicted joys, and our sometimes hard-won ambivalence about concepts like family and community and country don’t just disappear. They take on new shapes and arguments. We’re going to need a lot more flashlights in the hands of all kinds of people. We also tend to forget, when talking in broader terms about a writer’s legacy, that the whole conversation stems from the toil of a single person. Fiction writers often operate in a grand swirl of imagination, experience and language. With the right amount of artifice, it all feels natural. With the right amount of invention (and biography), it all feels true. Mr. Roth’s body of work is one 20th-century American man’s hole. There are many similar divots and ditches in the literary landscape, but we’ll keep peering into Mr. Roth’s because so few have dug and illuminated with such verve, wit, fearlessness and emotional acuity. Maybe it’s wrong, and it can definitely be ugly, but many of us will keep looking, not so much for answers as for more questions — about what being a man, and a human being, in America might have meant and felt like for some in the past, and what it might mean and feel like in the future.