Does college pay off for the poor? Yes. But college by itself cannot fix income inequality. Other policies are also needed. In our research, we find that people from low-income backgrounds who complete college, compared to those who complete only high school, increase their career earnings by 71 percent. That is a hefty return. To put that 71 percent return in dollar terms: For the average college graduate from a low-income background (those who grow up with family earnings below 185 percent of the poverty line), lifetime earnings are about $810,000. But for the average person from a low-income background with just a high school diploma, average lifetime earnings are about $475,000. That boost of $335,000 vastly exceeds tuition costs and any foregone earnings from attending college instead of immediately working full-time after high school. College pays off even more for people from higher-income backgrounds. In this group, who grow up with family income above 185 percent of the poverty line, the lifetime earnings of those with a four-year college degree average $1.6 million, compared to $661,000 for those with just a high school diploma — a difference of $901,000, or 136 percent. The evidence shows that college has limits as a solution to inequality. Obtaining a four-year degree does not equalize the lifetime earnings of people from different economic backgrounds. College graduates from low-income backgrounds earn far less than college graduates from higher-income backgrounds. Furthermore, both the dollar and percentage boost to college is much greater for those from higher-income backgrounds. What explains these results? Part of the explanation is that people from higher-income backgrounds tend to go to more selective colleges. Indeed, our research finds evidence that the very high returns to college for those from higher-income backgrounds is because of differential access to the highest-earnings jobs. If we were to rank all individuals by their lifetime earnings, the differences in college returns would be completely driven by people in the top quarter, and would grow especially strong for people in the top 5 percent. We also found that these differential college returns are much stronger for white men Our results fit a simple (and simplified) story: Some white men from higher-income backgrounds graduate from Harvard or Yale and get lucrative jobs on Wall Street. This is less likely for other groups. Some say that this reality, combined with the high cost of college and the heavy burden of debt, means college is losing its value for the poor. But that conclusion is wrong. [For another point of view on this debate, read Ellen Ruppel Shell’s Op-Ed, “College May Not Be Worth It Anymore.”] While a college degree does not eliminate inequality, it still pays off for people from low-income backgrounds. And for some especially disadvantaged groups within a low-income background, the payoff can be even greater, in percentage terms, than for those from higher-income backgrounds. For the poorest within our low-income group — those who grew up below the poverty line — the percentage boost to lifetime earnings from a four-year college degree is 179 percent. Among African-Americans from low-income backgrounds, the return is 173 percent/. Because college pays off for low-income groups, policies to boost college access and success make sense. In our recent evaluation with our colleague Marta Lachowska of a college scholarship program, the Kalamazoo Promise, we find that its boost to college graduation for lower-income groups has a benefit-cost ratio of over 3 to 1. The increase in future earnings from the students who benefit from such programs far exceeds the scholarship costs. To broaden economic opportunity, policies to increase college attendance are part of the solution. But they are not enough. We must also consider policies that will raise the earnings of all Americans, whether they have graduated from college or not. A good start would be replacing wasteful business tax incentives with more effective assistance that would help businesses create jobs — particularly manufacturing jobs, expanding theearned-income tax credit, and investing in  collaborative job training programs between businesses and community colleges. We should also help lower-income Americans better access the highest-paying jobs, for example through helping them attend more selective colleges. To reduce inequality, we should consider policies to help redistribute the extraordinary fortunes gained by those at the very top of the American income distribution. But in the meantime, college still has a good economic return for most Americans, including the poor and other disadvantaged groups.