Gene Talmadge must be turning over in the grave. On Tuesday, Georgia Democrats chose an African-American woman, Stacey Abrams, as their party’s candidate for governor. And not just any African-American woman. Ms. Abrams, the former minority leader in the Georgia House of Representatives, ran as an outspoken progressive and was endorsed by, among others, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and the liberal group MoveOn.org. When Mr. Talmadge served as Georgia’s governor for three terms during the 1930s and 1940s, the Georgia Democratic Party was viewed as the defender of segregation and white supremacy in the state. After African-Americans began voting in large numbers following the passage of the 1965 Voting Rights Act, Georgia Democrats like Jimmy Carter and Roy Barnes campaigned and governed as moderates and forged biracial coalitions that included a substantial minority of white voters along with the overwhelming majority of African-American voters. But in recent statewide elections, moderate Democrats have had little success in Georgia. Mr. Barnes was defeated in his bid for a second term in 2002 by a little-known state senator named Sonny Perdue (who is now the secretary of agriculture). That election began a string of Democratic losses running through 2016. Republicans now hold every statewide office, including both of Georgia’s United States Senate seats. No Democratic presidential candidate has carried the state since Bill Clinton in 1992. The Democratic strategy of nominating candidates who hoped to win over moderate-to-conservative white voters received its most recent test in 2014. In that year, Democrats nominated Jason Carter, the grandson of the former governor and former president, as their candidate for governor, and Michelle Nunn, the daughter of Sam Nunn, a former senator, as their candidate for the Senate. Both lost decisively. In her successful campaign for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, Ms. Abrams adopted a different strategy than that followed by Mr. Carter, Ms. Nunn and most Democrats who have run for statewide office in Georgia. While extolling her success in working with Republicans while minority leader, Ms. Abrams emphasized her progressive positions on issues like expanding Medicaid in the state, along with the personal challenges she had overcome as an African-American from a family of modest means. Rather than focusing on increasing the Democratic share of the vote among moderate-to-conservative whites, Ms. Abrams emphasized her ability to energize and mobilize young voters and the state’s growing nonwhite electorate. Ms. Abrams’s opponent in the Democratic primary, the state representative Stacey Evans, also ran as a progressive. In fact, on one major issue, Ms. Evans tried to run to Ms. Abrams’s left by questioning the latter’s willingness to compromise with Republicans on changes to the popular Hope Scholarship program, which made it more difficult for African-American students to obtain the grants. But Ms. Evans, who is white, also claimed that her ability to win a larger share of the state’s moderate-to-conservative white voters would give her a better shot than Ms. Abrams at defeating the Republican nominee in November. On Tuesday, Democratic primary voters across Georgia decisively chose Ms. Abrams. In winning an impressive 76 percent of the vote, Ms. Abrams carried 153 of the state’s 159 counties. Ms. Abrams won not only by an overwhelming margin in metro Atlanta, with its large African-American electorate, but also by wide margins in many of the state’s less-populous rural counties where there are fewer African-American voters. In November, Georgia’s first African-American and first woman to run as the candidate of a major party for governor will face the winner of a July 24 runoff between two Republicans — Casey Cagle, the lieutenant governor, and Brian Kemp, the secretary of state. The contest between Ms. Abrams and the Republican nominee is likely to be competitive and nasty and provide Georgia voters with sharp contrasts on issues ranging from education and gun rights to immigration. In the Republican primary, the candidates ran as staunch conservatives, emphasizing their support for gun rights, opposition to illegal immigration and loyalty to President Trump. One ad from Mr. Kemp that was replayed numerous times in the final days of the campaign featured the candidate holding a shotgun and questioning a would-be suitor of one of his daughters about his attachment to the Second Amendment. Meanwhile, Mr. Cagle’s ads emphasized his endorsement by the N.R.A. and support for sending Georgia National Guard troops to the Mexican border. The interval between the primary and the runoff means that for the next two months, Mr. Cagle and Mr. Kemp will have to focus on appealing to the state’s very conservative Republican primary voters. Meanwhile, Ms. Abrams can work to heal the wounds that were opened during the rather nasty Democratic primary race and attack the Republican candidates. It’s been a long drought in statewide elections for Georgia Democrats, but the state’s shifting demographics along with President Trump’s unpopularity in Georgia — according to a Gallup poll, Mr. Trump had an approval rating of only 41 percent and a disapproval rating of 53 percent during 2017 — give Democrats some reason for optimism. One recent poll from Survey USA had Mr. Cagle leading Ms. Abrams by only five points in a general election matchup. And in Tuesday’s primary, Democratic turnout came close to matching Republican turnout — Democratic primary voters made up 48 percent of those who turned out. In the Survey USA poll, almost all Democratic identifiers supported Ms. Abrams and almost all Republican identifiers supported Mr. Cagle, with independents splitting evenly. If those voting patterns hold true in November, the outcome of the race will hinge on which party does a better job of energizing and turning out its base voters. Since 2002, Republicans have had the advantage in that regard. In nominating Stacey Abrams, Georgia Democrats are betting that anger at President Trump and a candidate with strong appeal to the state’s growing nonwhite electorate will drive enough Democratic voters to the polls to reverse that trend and make history.