When President Trump signed an executive order this year directing federal agencies to review adding work requirements to federal assistance programs, he said such requirements would “increase self-sufficiency, well-being and economic mobility.” Paul Ryan reportedly cast requirements as an attempt at “getting people the skills and opportunity to get into the work force.” Seema Verma, head of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said they would improve “health and well-being through incentivizing work and community engagement.” Ignore the platitudes. Work requirements have never been about helping the poor or unemployed. They’ve always been about punishing black people. This has become abundantly clear over the last few weeks as states drafting policies requiring Medicaid recipients get a job or engage in other employment activity have added exemptions. These carve-outs would, in effect, spare white, rural residents from work requirements but not black ones in urban areas. These proposals have turned the subtext that was there all along into legible text. Kentucky, Ohio and Virginia are seeking waivers from the Department of Health and Human Services that would allow them to impose work requirements on some Medicaid recipients, but not all of them. They all included exemptions for counties with the highest unemployment levels, which are rural, mostly white areas. Urban centers where lots of black people are unemployed, but whose county-level unemployment rates are lower, would be subject to the work requirement. In Michigan, lawmakers are backing off from a similar exemption after it was criticized for its racial inequality. As the University of Michigan law professors Nicholas Bagley and Eli Savit recently argued, it doesn’t matter whether this was done on purpose. It’s still racial discrimination when it’s so clearly going to have such a disparate impact on black people. Michigan provided clear evidence of how race plays out in the push for work requirements: White people, who are 57 percent of the state’s Medicaid population, would have constituted 85 percent of those exempted. Black people, who make up 23 percent of enrollees, would have made up just 1.2 percent of the exempted. It isn’t just Medicaid. Republicans have been redefining “welfare” to include a much wider universe of programs. “Welfare” used to refer to a specific program: cash assistance, or what is now known as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families. But in last year’s House Republican budget, “welfare reform” included changes to food stamps and Medicaid. The Trump administration’s quest for “welfare reform” has included not just enhanced work requirements for those two programs, but also for housing assistance. Wisconsin’s governor, Scott Walker, in a suit  against the Obama administration, argued that people on food stamps are “welfare recipients.” Calling these programs “welfare” has very specific outcomes. A majority of Americans wrongfully believe that most people who get “welfare” are black. The reality is that the largest group of public assistance recipients is whites. The racial confusion, in turn, weakens overall support. While more than half of Americans say the government spends too much on “welfare,” the same share feel that not enough is spent on “assistance to the poor.” These attitudes are the fallout of the racialized battle over welfare reform that began in the mid-1970s, when Ronald Reagan began telling the story of the welfare queen. By 1989, two-thirds of Americans believed that welfare made people dependent and complacent. The share of people who felt the government has a responsibility toward the poor dropped substantially between 1983 and 1995. President Reagan teed up the shot, and Bill Clinton swung. One of the signature pieces of legislation of the Clinton presidency was the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, which imposed work requirements on cash assistance recipients and gave states wide leeway in administering the program as they wanted. What they wanted, it turns out, was to treat black people more harshly. Five years after reform, nearly two-thirds of families enrolled in the most punitive welfare programs were black; nearly two-thirds of the families in the least strict ones were white. Ever since, the states with the biggest black populations have had more restrictive welfare policies alongside less generous cash benefits. With the racial motivations of these policies unmasked, the fallacy of work requirements are also exposed. The logic of these exemptions is that there are structural reasons people can’t find jobs. And those reasons extend beyond white, rural America: Someone might be able to find a job, but not a steady one; another might not be able to work because she needs to care for a disabled family member. It’s cruel to demand that people work to receive help they need. Everyone, of all races, should remain exempt from work requirements.