“The indigenous American berserk,” Philip Roth’s encapsulation of the country he loved, is a resonating phrase in this time of repetitive school shootings, incontinent presidential tweets, tawdry abuse of public office, rule by mob incitement, manipulation through falsehood, wall obsessions, and the truncation of the English language to a 77-word lexicon “better called Jerkish,” as Roth described Donald’s Trump’s miserable linguistic impact in The New Yorker. Perhaps Roth timed his exit on Tuesday, at the age of 85, as an admonition to a disoriented nation. His “berserk,” alongside his full-throated celebration of the American panoply and riotous exploration of “the great pervasive Anti-You that someone with a grudge might prefer to call God,” often had a menacing side. In “American Pastoral,” perhaps his greatest novel, the American dream of Seymour “Swede” Levov, the assimilated Jew of Viking-evoking athletic ability and appearance during his Newark youth, comes apart in the vortex of his daughter’s descent into terrorism. In “The Plot Against America,” it is the whole country that succumbs in 1940 to a president of Nazi sympathies, the flying ace Charles A. Lindbergh. The novel was published in 2004. After Sept. 11, the United States was no longer synonymous with sanctuary, an enduring change in its sense of self. It, too, could be gripped by the unspeakable. For Roth the imagination was also counter-history. He teased out, with extraordinary energy and wit, the full literary potential of every “What if?” He embarked, imagination irrepressible, down every road not taken at the fork. I found Roth liberating. I am grateful to him above all for the way he introduced me, in wonder, to the exuberance and stubbornness, the unabashed sexual and social complexes, of American Jewishness; and for the rollicking cavalcade of the United States he set before me, an English Jew of South African descent raised not to make a fuss about the odd anti-Semitic remark and to assimilate in England, the land, at least when I grew up in it, of Lewis Namier’s “trembling Israelites.” Roth offered American space, which is also ever-renewed American possibility. He personified another way of living as a Jew. In his novel “Deception,” Roth has his American protagonist say to his British lover, “In England, whenever I’m in a public place, a restaurant, a party, the theater, and someone happens to mention the word ‘Jew,’ I notice that the voice always drops a little.” She challenges him, prompting the American to insist, yes, that’s how “you all say ‘Jew.’ Jews included.” My mother, June, was like that, unconsciously. That is where turning the other cheek to some remark, say, about stinginess (“Don’t be so Jewish!”) ends up: in a whisper. I recall comparing notes with the poet James Lasdun, who grew up in similar English circumstances and experienced the same American liberation, and being struck by his characterization in a poem of Anglo-Jewish aphasia: “the throttling knot of annulled speech gathering in my throat.” Roth, of course, liberated speech. His was a boisterous Jewish vernacular. In “American Pastoral,” he writes of the Newark of his childhood: “Am I completely mistaken to think that living as well-born children in Renaissance Florence could not have held a candle to growing up within aromatic range of Tabachnik’s pickle barrels?” His Jews, unlike European Jews, are not somehow a little separate, or distinguishable, from the ambient civilization, somehow less than entirely intrinsic. As he puts it in “The Plot Against America:” What they were was what they couldn’t get rid of — what they couldn’t even begin to want to get rid of. Their being Jews issued from their being themselves, as did their being Americans. It was as it was, in the nature of things, as fundamental as having arteries and veins, and they never manifested the slightest desire to change it or deny it, regardless of the consequences. Jews and Americans, Muslims and Americans, Mexicans and Americans, inextricably so, “as fundamental as having arteries and veins.” It is worth dwelling on this essence of the United States, and its beautiful churn, at this juncture when facile bigotry issues from the highest office in the land. Looking back, in an afterword written on the 25th anniversary of the publication of “Portnoy’s Complaint,” Roth wrote, “I wished to dazzle in my very own way and to dazzle myself no less than anyone else.” He recalled admonishing himself, “All you have to do is sit down and work!” Aspiring writers might engrave those words. How Roth worked (sitting and later standing); how he dazzled; how he delighted. I often laughed out loud, not least at the speculation of Portnoy’s father on how he might overcome constipation: “I remember when they announced over the radio the explosion of the first atom bomb, he said aloud, ‘Maybe that would do the job.’” Laughter stood at the heart of Roth’s liberating gift. Thank you, Philip Roth. “Free at last,” he once wrote. “Or that’s what I would probably be tempted to think if I were either starting out all over again or dead.”