President Trump has an almost Apollonian daytime argument in favor of his continued political dominance, which is “Jobs Jobs Jobs!,” “MAGA!” and so forth. He also has a nighttime argument about decline, racial resentment and ethnic hatred. He pushes both strains hard, but the evidence suggests that his heart is really in the hate. Through gut (or gutter) instinct, Trump has adopted a political strategy designed to exploit anger at and resentment toward immigrants as well as racial and ethnic minorities. This is the linchpin of his approach to the 2020 election. Trump’s demonization of nonwhites was and remains essential to his takeover of the Republican Party. His unabashed embrace of insults, epithets and name-calling is well established. In January, my colleagues David Leonhardt and Ian Prasad Philbrick argued in The Times that Donald Trump has been obsessed with race for the entire time he has been a public figure. He had a history of making racist comments as a New York real-estate developer in the 1970s and ‘80s. More recently, his political rise was built on promulgating the lie that the nation’s first black president was born in Kenya. He then launched his campaign with a speech describing Mexicans as rapists. The media often falls back on euphemisms when describing Trump’s comments about race: racially loaded, racially charged, racially tinged, racially sensitive. And Trump himself has claimed that he is “the least racist person.” But here’s the truth: Donald Trump is a racist. He talks about and treats people differently based on their race. He has done so for years, and he is still doing so. I asked Stephen Utych, a political scientist at Boise State and the author of a 2017 paper, “How Dehumanization Influences Attitudes toward Immigrants,” whether he saw Trump’s anti-immigrant rhetoric as part of a larger political war plan. He wrote back by email: Taking the morality out of it, I’ve both conducted and seen research from others that consistently shows that dehumanization “works” by making people dislike dehumanized groups, and wanting to take punitive actions against them. I think Trump has been doing this really subtly, especially over the last few months, so I definitely think this is a strategic move on his part. This tactic, Utych added, “denies out-groups traits that are uniquely human — things such as the ability to reason, think critically, or feel emotions.” In fact, well before the 2016 election, the white American electorate was becoming increasingly receptive to derogatory language as adherence to standards of the liberal democratic tradition had already begun to waver. Steven Miller and Nicholas Davis, political scientists at Clemson University and Texas A&M, report on poll data collected by the World Values Survey between 1995 and 2011 in their recent paper, “White Outgroup Intolerance and Declining Support for American Democracy”: Social intolerance of immigrants, those who speak a different language, and those from a different race leads to increased support for strongman rule in the U.S., potential rule of U.S. government by the army, and decreases support for even having a democracy in the U.S. Intolerance, they continue, increases white individuals’ openness to undemocratic alternatives — white Americans who exhibit social intolerance are more likely to dismiss the value of separation of powers. Because the Miller-Davis study is based on survey data collected well before the 2016 election, the two authors write, “our analysis might undersell the strength of the relationship between intolerance and anti-democratic attitudes.” Their research suggests that anti-democratic attitudes are on the rise. The percentage of whites who qualified as socially intolerant doubled from 12.6 percent in 1995 to 24.9 percent in 2011, when the most recent World Values Survey was conducted. If that rate of increase were to continue, the percentage of whites in 2020 who would qualify as intolerant would be almost a third. One of Miller and Davis’s most striking findings is that among socially intolerant whites, education heightens hostility to immigrants and fails to moderate the anti-democratic orientation of these white Americans. Miller and Davis argue that college-educated white Americans who are prejudiced against ethnolinguistic difference are much more likely to see democracy as empowering these minority groups beyond their numerical endowment, extending rights and liberties to groups that these white Americans see as unwelcome. How does this operate? The best educated among those already hostile to immigrants are the ones who are best equipped intellectually to recognize that “democracy involves the institutionalized protection of the rights of various minority groups,” which is just what intolerant voters oppose. Miller and Davis warn: Democracy has been durable in the United States — so durable, in fact, that serious inquiry into Americans’ attitudes toward it has been uncommon. No more. A recent and growing scholarly literature raises questions regarding the depths of citizens’ support for democracy. In a pointed critique of current developments in American politics, “Trumpism and American Democracy: History, Comparison, and the Predicament of Liberal Democracy in the United States,” Robert C. Lieberman and Suzanne Mettler, political scientists at Johns Hopkins and Cornell, working with three other political scientists, write: Trumpism has legitimized and ushered back into the foreground of American politics contestation over core questions of civic membership and status: who is included in the political community and what are their participatory rights? While both parties have at least given lip service to civil rights principles since the 1970s, they write, Trump has thoroughly altered the equation. Through his hostile comments about members of specific ethnic and religious groups during the presidential campaign, to the Muslim ban, his pardon of former Maricopa County, Arizona, Sheriff Joseph Arpaio, and other policies his administration has promoted, to his response to the “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, he has given license to political forces that vociferously and publicly spurn these developments. In a separate study of voters surveyed before and after the 2016 election, Christian S. Crandall, Jason M. Miller and Mark H. White of the psychology department at the University of Kansas, found that the 2016 contest “ushered in a normative climate that favored expression of several prejudices.” The election, they wrote in “Changing Norms Following the 2016 U.S. Presidential Election: The Trump Effect on Prejudice,” served to give “voice and license to express the previously suppressed.” I asked Nour Kteily at Northwestern University about the objective of Trump’s rhetoric. For example, what exactly was going on when Trump said at a May 16 round-table on sanctuary cities in California, “These aren’t people. These are animals,” leaving open the question of whether he was referring to immigrants generally or to MS-13 gang members. “There is good reason to believe that Trump’s statements — whether or not intended as such — do serve a strategic function,” Kteily, who has published extensively on social hierarchy and power disparities, wrote back. He added that the research he and others have conducted shows a positive association between dehumanization of minorities and support for several of the Republican candidates, but the link to support for Trump was statistically stronger than for any of the other Republican candidates. Trump, Kteily notes, “has changed the nature of the conversation, normalizing the expression of attitudes that would previously have been socially prohibited.” Trump is at the cutting edge of these unraveling inhibitions. Studies of voters in both parties show that his hostile invective has begun to infect the electorate at large. In “Party Animals? Party Identity and Dehumanization,” James L. Martherus of Vanderbilt University, Andres G. Martinez of Sonoma State University, Paul K. Piff of the University of California, Irvine, and Alexander G. Theodoridis, of the University of California, Merced, contend that their studies Demonstrate new and extreme boundaries of partisan behavior. Partisans are willing to explicitly state that members of the opposing party are like animals, that they lack essential human traits, and that they are less evolved than members of their own party. Trump’s rhetoric — leaning heavily as it does on simplification — is an explicit attack on political correctness — on “restrictive communication norms” designed to avoid offense to “groups of people who are socially disadvantaged or discriminated against” — standards that in the past constrained hostile, cruel and heedless remarks about minorities and immigrants. Trump has profited politically from this attack, to put it mildly. In “Donald Trump as a Cultural Revolt Against Perceived Communication Restriction: Priming Political Correctness Norms Causes More Trump Support,” three psychologists, Lucian Gideon Conway and Meredith A. Repke of the University of Montana, and Shannon C. Houck of Syracuse University, write: Temporarily priming PC (politically correct) norms significantly increased support for Donald Trump. We further show that chronic emotional reactance towards restrictive communication norms positively predicted support for Trump, and that this effect remains significant even when controlling for political ideology. In total, this work provides evidence that norms that are designed to increase the overall amount of positive communication can actually backfire by increasing support for a politician who uses extremely negative language that explicitly violates the norm. In an October 2016 Public Religion Research Institute survey, American voters were asked to choose between the following two statements: 1) “even if certain people are offended, it is important to speak freely about sensitive issues and problems facing the country”; or 2) “it’s important to avoid using language that is hurtful and offensive to some people when discussing sensitive issues.” Respondents chose the first answer 57 to 39. In fact, the more Trump deploys hostile invective, the more he makes such language acceptable to the public at large. Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at the University of Massachusetts-Amherst, writes in “Follow the Racist? The Consequences of Expressions of Elite Prejudice for Mass Rhetoric” that exposure to Trump’s racist quotes cause people to say more oﬀensive things, not only about the groups targeted by Trump, but also about other identity groups as well. The result, Schaffner argues, is that Republican candidates increasingly have an incentive to use prejudiced rhetoric to appeal to their supporters, and using such rhetoric no longer comes with the same electoral penalty as it once did. The new unwillingness to curb derogatory speech, he continued, could have profound implications for the nature of mass discourse. Indeed, if politicians increasingly feel at liberty to use explicitly prejudiced rhetoric during their campaigns, then the mass public is likely to take cues from such behavior, leading them to express more prejudice themselves. The result would almost certainly be increasingly heightened inter-group tensions which pose a threat to political and social stability in the United States. Trump is a powerful force propelling the erosion of standards in our political life and throughout the broader social order, in a decivilizational process about which I have written before. His stunning political success suggests that this trend has progressed further than most of us recognize, much less understand.