The cost of living in New York City — rent, groceries, health care, mass transit — continues to climb. And the lower your income, the harder these increases hit you. That’s why we’re pushing Mayor Bill de Blasio to adopt Fair Fares, an ambitious, large-scale discount program for subway and bus fares, in his budget proposal for the 2019 fiscal year. It would give half-price MetroCards to working-age New Yorkers living at or below the federal poverty line. For Cynthia Kozikowski, a single mother of four in the Bronx, paying off doctor bills and buying prescription drugs are usually the first things to get crossed off her list. Before going on disability with a back injury, Ms. Kozikowski had a well-paying job in customer service. Now she’s forced to decide between paying for a MetroCard, so she can take her children to doctor appointments in Brooklyn, where they’ve been going since before moving to the Bronx, or paying off her own health care or cellphone bills. She opts for the MetroCard. Not only so she can get necessities like food and toiletries, but also so her kids can see the rest of the city on weekends. So either her medical bills pile up, or she has to go without the use of her cellphone. But Ms. Kozikowski isn’t the only one faced with those choices. Nearly 800,000 working-age New Yorkers, more than half of the 1.5 million New Yorkers living at or below the federal poverty level, would qualify for Fair Fares. The current federal poverty threshold is equivalent to a family of four bringing home an annual income of $25,000 or less, not enough to get by in one of the world’s most expensive cities. Ms. Kozikowski chooses the MetroCard. Others don’t. They’re unable to leave their neighborhoods to commute to work, meet for job interviews, see a doctor or get the education needed to get ahead. They’re trapped. Worse still, the excessive punishment levied on people who evade subway fares in essence criminalizes poverty. For want of $3 for a subway ride, people jump a turnstile or walk through the emergency doors, risking $100 fines, arrest and even deportation. And make no mistake, despite some district attorneys’ decisions to stop prosecuting fare evaders, New Yorkers still face arrest for it — and the arraignments and jail time that can go with it. But there’s hope. Implementing Fair Fares in New York City would not only benefit the city’s poor; it would signal to the nation that such a program could work on a grand scale. We’re not alone in thinking this. Polls show more than 70 percent of the public is in favor of the plan. Fair Fares has received endorsements from nearly all of this city’s major newspaper editorial boards, economic justice groups, transit advocates, faith leaders and fiscal watchdogs, as well as most of the city’s elected officials. But there’s one glaring exception amid this consensus: Mayor de Blasio. As a progressive who has made combating income inequality central to his agenda, he has so far refused to fund Fair Fares, which would require $212 million in annual city funding. This is a large sum, but money well spent in the city’s $89 billion budget. The mayor believes that it’s not the city’s responsibility to pay for the program, but rather the MTA’s. But it’s no different than already-existing safety net programs the city pays for. We already provide MetroCards to vulnerable New Yorkers on a limited basis, but not on a broad scale like other cities. Proposals similar to Fair Fares have been adopted in Toronto, San Francisco and Seattle — where more than 20,000 people registered for that city’s program in the first eight months after it began. With Fair Fares, we have a similar opportunity to enact change for the social good. Major cities like Chicago, Philadelphia and Washington also have significant mass transit systems and large low-income communities. Hopefully, they will follow our lead once Fair Fares is up and running. The mayor has said he wants New York to be the fairest major city in the country and has proclaimed himself a leader on income inequality. It’s time to make good on those words, and make the turnstile the gateway, instead of the barrier, to progress.