There is something very eerie about reading fiction and realizing that you are ostensibly reading about yourself. I was 15 when I read the title novella of Philip Roth’s first book, “Goodbye, Columbus,” handed to me by a relative who informed me that it was “about our town.” It was. Published in 1959, the story is a brief romance between a poor Jewish boy from gritty Newark, my mother’s and grandparents’ hometown, and a rich Jewish girl from leafy and affluent Short Hills, N.J., my own. The town, still leafy and affluent, felt familiar. What didn’t feel familiar was Brenda Patimkin, the Newark narrator’s love interest. Vain and vapid, Brenda, whose striving parents were among the first Jews in exclusive Short Hills, was the sort who had her nose “fixed” to fit in with her Harvard classmates. I read that and laughed. I went to Brenda Patimkin’s public high school — which by the time I graduated in 1995 felt nearly as Jewish as Roth’s Newark. Harvard was where I learned Yiddish. These twists of fate tell a familiar story of an immigrant community’s path to the American mainstream. But for my family, the work of Philip Roth, who died on Tuesday after receiving every literary accolade short of the Nobel Prize, was intimate and personal. Every restaurant, synagogue and cemetery in his books was a real location in my family’s life. So how could this Jewish girl from Short Hills, and the many others like her who populate Roth’s books, feel so unfamiliar? Despite the years that divided us, wasn’t Brenda supposed to be a girl like … me? Only after becoming a novelist myself did I understand my discomfort. Philip Roth is celebrated for bringing my family’s tiny slice of the world into the American pantheon, widening the literary canon to include American Jews. It is hardly news to point out that he accomplished this feat at the expense of Jewish women. What is new is that we now get to decide what that heavy price means — not for Roth, but for us. Roth’s three favorite topics — Jews, women and New Jersey — all remain socially acceptable targets of irrational public mockery, and Roth was a virtuoso at mocking the combination of all three. “What are they, after all, these Jewish women who raised us up as children?” Roth’s narrator asks in “Portnoy’s Complaint,” the 1969 novel that made his reputation. “It isn’t their fault they were given a gift like speech — look, if cows could talk, they would say things just as idiotic. Yes, yes, maybe that’s the solution then: think of them as cows, who have been given the twin miracles of speech and mah-jongg.” One could generously say that jokes like this haven’t aged well, yet they were just as cruel in 1969 — and the misogyny isn’t really the problem. After all, if one policed literature for bigotry, there would be little left to read. The problem is literary: these caricatures reveal a lack of not only empathy, but curiosity. Shakespeare bothered to give the hated Jewish moneylender Shylock a point of view; Mark Twain bothered to imagine emotions for the runaway slave Jim. Both portrayals still reflected popular prejudice, often horribly so. But they also included a glimmer of humanity beyond it, revealing the artists’ curiosity about lives they could only imagine. Philip Roth’s works are only curious about Philip Roth. Of course, most writers lead with characters like themselves, and for Roth’s contemporary Jewish readers, his warts-and-all portrayal of people like himself was an honor, inviting them into American literature. But that was the outer limit of Roth’s imagination. His strength lay in those brilliantly rendered characters and voices like his. His weakness was that those voices denigrated just about everyone else. His caricatured women are merely a symptom of this lack of curiosity: It shows up again in Roth’s religious characters, his Israeli characters, his non-Jewish characters, his anyone-who-isn’t-him characters. That’s why Brenda and the many other Jewish New Jersey women in his books, ostensibly so close to home, struck me as so unfamiliar. I didn’t know these women at all, because neither did he. What are they, after all, these Jewish women from New Jersey? There are as many answers to that question as there are Jewish women from New Jersey, but it would help to start that question with the word “who” instead of “what” — and to acknowledge how many of these women are, after all, precisely the people who made Philip Roth’s success possible. The Jewish New Jersey women I know are talented professionals in every field, and often in those two thankless professions that Roth quite likely required to thrive: teachers and therapists. Roth, who achieved true greatness in depicting people like himself, never had the imagination to give these women souls. Now Roth is dead, and in our current American culture, literature means little; the shared humanity that great literature inspires matters even less. What endures, sadly, is Roth’s lack of imagination, the unempathetic and incurious caricaturing of others that he turned into a virtue — and which now defines much of American public life. In the discussions since Roth’s death, we’re still talking about Roth, just like his works taught us to do. Yet in the years to come, the real meaning of his work will emerge not in how we judge Roth, but in how we judge ourselves.