For decades, Mario Batali was one of the most famous and respected chefs in the United States, with an empire built on pasta and brashness. He is now under criminal investigation by the New York Police Department. A week ago, “60 Minutes” aired an investigative segment on the sexual assault and harassment allegations against Mr. Batali and Ken Friedman, the New York restaurateur. One woman, speaking publicly for the first time, told Anderson Cooper that in 2005 after kissing Mr. Batali at The Spotted Pig, the downtown restaurant co-owned by Mr. Friedman, she vomited and blacked out; at dawn, she said, she awoke with scratches on her leg and semen on her skirt. Both Mr. Friedman and Mr. Batali have denied any allegations of nonconsensual sexual activity. The segment followed investigative reports first published late last year by Eater and The New York Times. In response to the episode’s revelations, B&B Hospitality Group, the restaurant empire built by Mr. Batali and his partners, released a statement calling the stories “chilling” and stating that the company was in the process of severing ties with Mr. Batali. April Bloomfield, the chef and co-owner of The Spotted Pig, said in a statement to “60 Minutes” that she was ending her partnership with Mr. Friedman. “I deeply regret not doing more to protect my staff, who relied on me.” On Friday, B&B Hospitality Group announced that it would close its three Las Vegas restaurants in July. I have been a cook and a food writer for more than 10 years. To me, feasting, feeding and eating with people remains a generous and celebratory act, one I find beautiful. And I know that to succeed in restaurants, which are notoriously challenging both physically and financially, passion is key. But over the years and in particular over the past six months, I’ve also realized that the industry’s darker truths have gone unchecked for far too long. We have embraced celebrity chefs who — on television, in books, in interviews — have been shown behaving or discussing behavior toward employees that should have alarmed anyone paying attention. I co-wrote the Eater article that first revealed the allegations against Mr. Batali and caused him to step away from the day-to-day operations of his company late last year. Since then, I’ve heard from dozens of women about their experiences with gender-based discrimination in the industry. A culinary school graduate told me a man she had dated circulated nude pictures of her around the first kitchen that employed her. Later, she said, a sous chef there came up behind her as she worked dinner service and grabbed her vagina. A celebrity chef told me that her shirt was ripped off of her when she was working as a line cook early on in her career. Later, after attaining multiple stars from The Times, she said she had trouble finding investors to open another place, unlike some male colleagues who had fewer accolades.  The restaurant industry relies on female labor but for far too long it has done too little to protect that work force. A representative from the Restaurant Opportunities Centers United, a nonprofit worker advocacy group, told me that the industry was made up mostly of women. The group’s 2014 study found that 80 percent of the female restaurant workers surveyed reported that they’d been sexually harassed by co-workers, two-thirds of them by managers. In the wake of the revelations about Mr. Batali, the industry appears to be trying to change. On Monday, Food & Wine magazine announced its Best New Chefs, and for the first time it featured more women than men. On the path to change, the industry must reckon not just with the famous men who behaved badly, but with the invisible category of women who were sidelined or pushed out of the business altogether. Beth Lieberman committed to a career in restaurants after she started working as a server at Momofuku Ko, David Chang’s Michelin-starred restaurant in the East Village, in 2009. She climbed the ranks to become the restaurant’s beverage director and, in October 2012, she was promoted to Momofuku beverage director, overseeing the drink menus at the company’s then four New York restaurants. Though she’d wanted the position, Ms. Lieberman was surprised by the timing because when the offer came she was in her third trimester and planning to go on leave — she would be Momofuku’s first employee to do so. In mid-December, about seven weeks before her baby was born, Ms. Lieberman was in the Momofuku office with a colleague when, she said, Mr. Chang interrupted. “He comes in and says something like, ‘It’s not going to matter what you guys are talking about because pregnant women never come back to work,’ ” she said. “And I said, ‘Well, I don’t really have a choice or I won’t eat.’ ” Mr. Chang, through a representative, said that he did not recall making that statement. Ms. Lieberman said that after that meeting, Mr. Chang went to California for work. Upon his return, she heard rumors that in California he had discussed the position of Momofuku beverage director with another woman, Jordan Salcito, who had deep roots in the wine world. When Ms. Lieberman asked management about her concern that she was being replaced, “I was told I was being paranoid,” she said. She worked until she gave birth, on Feb. 9, 2013. Ms. Salcito began at Momofuku two days later. In April, Ms. Lieberman had coffee with Ms. Salcito and, Ms. Lieberman said, it became clear that both women believed they had the same job. Around this time, Ms. Lieberman contacted a lawyer. In May, shortly before returning to work, Ms. Lieberman got a new job description. Her title was unchanged, but the scope of her work had diminished. She now reported to the vice president for beverage operations — Ms. Salcito. A person at Momofuku told me that there was plenty of work to go around at the time, since the company’s beverage program was growing. But, Ms. Lieberman said, she was at a loss and felt tossed aside by a company that she’d initially found inspiring. Ms. Lieberman did not sue Momofuku and, she said, after negotiating a month’s pay in severance, left the company in July 2013. The next month, Momofuku hired an assistant beverage director. In reporting on Ms. Lieberman’s story, I learned that other women from Momofuku had remained at the company after giving birth, including Ms. Salcito. I also spoke with multiple people who mentioned another high-ranking Momofuku employee who, last year, alleged that she, too, was discriminated against after returning from maternity leave. In response to queries about these employees, Mr. Chang wrote, “I know in my heart that our intentions were honorable in supporting staff going on leave, even if there have been failures of communication.” He added, “I want our industry to be fair and equitable for everyone.” Today, Ms. Lieberman works for real estate developers opening up food halls. After Momofuku she took another job in the food industry but, she said, was fired while on leave after the birth of her second child. That’s when, she said, she realized the industry would not support her as a working mother. Changing career paths took “a lot of work,” she said. “I’m still so angry about what happened. I wasn’t done with that phase of my life.” To speak out against powerful bosses in general is a risk. But in the food world, especially in the world of fine dining, blacklisting concerns are pervasive. “At the highest level, it’s a small world,” said Maimon Kirschenbaum, a New York City employment lawyer. “Even when cases don’t make the papers, word gets around.” Stephanie Capsolas, a client of Mr. Kirschenbaum’s, fought sexual harassment in restaurants long before the #MeToo movement made it a topic of public concern. In 2007, Ms. Capsolas was hired as a server at Babbo, Mr. Batali’s upscale Italian restaurant in Greenwich Village. According to multiple people, she was a superior server. About two years into her time there, Ms. Capsolas contacted Mr. Kirschenbaum after Frank Langello, Babbo’s executive chef, persistently sexually harassed her, according to a lawsuit she later filed. At the time, Mr. Kirschenbaum said, wage-theft cases had more impact than sexual harassment cases. So, he encouraged Ms. Capsolas to bring a wage-theft case against Babbo, along with a sexual harassment charge. In July of 2010, they filed the wage-theft suit in federal court and the sexual harassment claim with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which can grant complainants the right to sue in federal court. She alleged that Mr. Langello had “created a sexually hostile work environment” by asking questions about her sex life, regularly snapping her bra and, on one occasion, lifting his apron to reveal an erection and saying, “Look what you do to me.” After filing both claims, Ms. Capsolas remained at Babbo for about a year because, someone close to her said, she needed the money. In March 2012, the wage case, which had turned into a class action, was settled for $5.25 million. In July, Ms. Capsolas filed her harassment claim in federal court. That September, Babbo and its owners alleged that the wage case’s settlement precluded Ms. Capsolas from taking legal action against Mr. Langello for sexual harassment. Mr. Langello also filed a defamation counterclaim against Ms. Capsolas, denying the harassment allegations. Mr. Kirschenbaum, the lawyer, said the counterclaim issue has now been resolved. (A settlement was reached and nondisclosure agreements were signed.) In August of 2011, before the settlement, Ms. Capsolas got a job as a server at Il Buco, another Italian restaurant in Lower Manhattan, and left Babbo. At the time she was hired at Il Buco, multiple people said, upper management didn’t know about the claims she had filed. She still works as a server there, though now in a senior role. Her time at Babbo and the publicity surrounding her cases, a former manager from Il Buco said, “robbed her of something she enjoyed and was passionate about.” In a statement, Ms. Capsolas said that she is happy at Il Buco. But, she said, “there is no question that service employees that have come forward with sex harassment allegations in the high-end restaurant industry have been unfairly maligned, especially when it comes to future employment.” In all of my conversations with women in the food industry, I was struck by the pattern of young women who were drawn to restaurants as a possible career — and who changed their minds after their early experiences. Maggie Yolen was like that. She’d worked in restaurants in high school and college. The job that most resonated with her started out part-time as a server in an up-and-coming Brooklyn restaurant. She liked her bosses and the mission of the restaurant. Soon after starting there she was working full time. Then a new chef arrived, and he started to pursue Ms. Yolen romantically. They went on one date, but Ms. Yolen did not return his feelings, and the situation deteriorated to the point where she altered her schedule to avoid overlapping shifts with him. Then, to avoid him altogether after she formally complained, she accepted an offer to work in an administrative role for the restaurant off-site. She became demoralized and the job didn’t go well. After asking to go part-time, she was ultimately fired. Then, Ms. Yolen worked as a cocktail waitress at a steakhouse. What she experienced there from customers was, she said, “more textbook sexual harassment.” She took to wearing a fake wedding ring in the hopes of fending off vulgar comments and unwanted touching. One night while working a cocktail party held by a Wall Street banking firm, she said, she made “more money than I’d ever made in my life.” But “I was repeatedly groped,” and that was her breaking point. “I was able to step back and say, ‘This isn’t worth it.’ I quit the next day.”