Give blood, go skateboarding. So read the motto on the deck I bought after returning from Iraq in 2004. It was easier to risk skinned knees and sprained wrists than mull over my time in the desert. Though the dead and wounded had come through our large air base, I’d only helped carry one. I returned with survivor’s guilt for not doing more. Skateboarding had long helped me navigate transitions. Senior year at M.I.T., a few months after Sept. 11 — the semester, of course, in which it was most dangerous for me to risk losing my R.O.T.C. scholarship through injury — I bought a board from a skate shop in Harvard Square. I jumped off foot-high ledges and startled bleary-eyed grad students in the campus’s underground tunnels. My service obligation loomed, but I felt free. That summer, a newly minted Marine lieutenant, I drove my piled-high station wagon to Quantico’s Basic School. The gate guard raised his eyebrows at my deck sticking up from piles in the back seat. Learning rifle and pistol shooting, squad tactics and sword drill soon occupied my weeks. In those six months, nothing but skateboarding so consistently released the pressure of full-time military life. Saturdays, I drove to a local mall, traded khakis and polo shirt for baggy clothes, and skated ramps and concrete bowls soon overrun by frenetic children. With them, I forgot I was government property. One weekend during communications officer school, a 14-year-old boy taught me how to ollie. Braces glinting, he showed me how to stabilize the board’s back wheels in a sidewalk crack, slam its tail with my back foot, and drag my front foot forward to make the board jump with me. It took longer to learn how to ollie than to finish the communications school curriculum, which speaks not to any special gift with communications equipment but to my truly awful skateboarding. Then I deployed. In Iraq, our company wrestled fiber optic cable across an airfield, and kept watch over radios, computers and satellites. Most of our seven-month deployment included long periods of boredom and stress, punctuated by frantic activity. To keep me sane, a lieutenant buddy jokingly mailed a cheap Walmart board. A sergeant scavenged some plywood, and we assembled a ramp down the side of a pyramidal bunker. As sunset ribboned the sky, we took turns rolling down — “dropping in” — from a small ledge made of two-by-fours. At the bottom, more plywood angled over sandbags formed a launch bump. We quit only when night darkened and we couldn’t see. Within days, we took down the plywood; we needed it to build shelving and benches for our equipment. Later, we found out we’d built our impromptu ramp on the interrogation bunker. But we were hooked. My company commander, who had skated as a teenager, found a plywood quarter-pipe the National Guard had built across the base. We drove out there on a blistering afternoon, pistols on our hips, and took turns dropping in. For a little while, at least, that four-foot-tall structure helped us forget medevac helicopters, cables’ flickering signals and mortar threats to our systems and ourselves. Another time, I took my skateboard to the mortuary affairs bunker, where the floor was perfect smooth concrete, and where the Marines welcomed gentle distraction on slow days. A couple of them took turns cruising along the row of empty stretchers. We quit when we knocked open an empty aluminum transport case for human remains. The cases were not always empty. Skateboarding couldn’t erase the memory of pushing open that bunker door to see a single case in the center of the room. I watched the mortuary affairs Marines drape the Stars and Stripes over it and tie the flag tight with twine. There weren’t enough of them to man the six handles around the case’s perimeter. Standing by a handle, I genuflected, pulled upward, and helped carry it to a waiting Humvee. It was heavier than I expected; I stumbled over the bunker’s threshold. The weight stayed in my wrists for days. The Walmart board broke soon before I returned to the States. At our California base, I felt lost and alone amid Marines who’d come home to families, or who shook off memories in partying crowds. I secretly longed for deployment’s workaholic simplicity. Early Saturday mornings, I claimed a six-foot-tall ramp at an empty skate park in Oceanside. Week after week, dropping into that ramp and performing a few simple turns helped me exhale. The war was in the past, whether or not I felt I’d contributed enough. I’ve been out of the military for a dozen years; graduate degrees and solid paychecks have done nothing for my skateboarding. I still can’t ollie onto a curb, for example, a helpful skill on Manhattan streets. But the Marine Corps taught me practice is key to mastery. So last summer, I slammed my right foot down repeatedly on the back of that same board I’d bought after deployment — the one that reads Give blood, go skateboarding. In trying to jump over sticks and cracks, I thought I could reclaim youthful freedom amid the workaday hustle. Instead, I fractured a foot bone, a cruel reminder I’m on the backstretch of my 30s. These days, when I hear the distinctive roll of polyurethane wheels on cement, I crane my neck to witness ollies, grinds on waxed curbs and the occasional wipeout. I’ve learned to pay attention to the present, and the person I’ve survived to be: an enthusiastic, aging, supremely untalented skateboarder. I silently root for the skaters I see, much as I did for my old Marine comrades. I want all of us to land safely, without drawing blood.