I love a parade. An organized, moving show of efforts. You’re driving a remodeled vintage vehicle down a street, waving at onlookers from a ridiculously ornate float, or twirling a baton, saying, in a perfectly acceptable way, “Look at me! Look what I’ve been working on!” We put them on to celebrate, to remember on days like Memorial Day and maybe even to show off a little. I don’t want to brag, but I have a lot of parade experience. It started in middle school with marching band. I was a few months into learning the saxophone, and suddenly I was expected to walk while doing it. They wanted me to do it in a group, in some sort of formation, and wearing a uniform. We were representing South Mountain Middle School in the Allentown, Pa., Halloween parade, which we were told is the country’s oldest. We were only tapped for the more lighthearted parades like Halloween and St. Patrick’s Day. It would be a lot to expect your average 11- to 14-year-old not only to play and march but also do it with some reverence for the nation’s fallen heroes. Still, we were carrying on a great tradition, wearing the same uniform as many who’d come before us. The exact same uniforms. They were incredibly old. Black pants, green blazer with matching beret, a white turtleneck dickey, and white galoshes to go over sneakers. The uniforms were designed to endure many years of arts program budget cuts. Archival quality and made to resist the elements. They held up to the elements fine, but did little to protect us from any name-calling. I was reminded over and over by adults, though, that everyone loves a guy in uniform, and I believed it. So much so that I not only stayed in marching band throughout middle school but continued into high school, additionally joined Junior R.O.T.C., and then enlisted in the Coast Guard after graduating. I never minded the actual marching part. The better everyone involved got at it, the more satisfying it became. There’s something mesmerizing about a group of people who put their own free will aside for a few hours to move in unison. It’s impressive because most of us on an average day can’t even wait in a straight line, let alone walk in one. A lot of work goes into not looking like an idiot while you march in a parade. Especially if you’re representing some regarded institution, like a branch of the military or one of several public middle schools in the district. The parade itself isn’t the hard part, it’s the preparation. You spend a lot of early mornings kicking up dust in a gravel lot. You polish your shoes, and your instruments, and you do what you can to get wrinkles out of upholstery-grade polyester. I’d be ignoring the tuba in the room if I didn’t now mention our president’s proposal to hold a military parade on Veterans Day this year. The parade is one step closer to reality after a House vote on Thursday authorized the plans. I understand the appeal of parades, but it’s a bad idea and a big misuse of resources. If polishing a saxophone before a city parade takes time and energy, I can only imagine what it would take to polish enough “small arms and munitions” to put on a show. If you want to honor veterans, do it with health care and services, not parades featuring period uniforms and “a heavy air component.” The October after I finished high school, I was in Cape May, N.J., for Coast Guard basic training. I didn’t expect much more marching, and certainly no more parades. I figured we’d be too busy learning cool stuff like knot tying and how to swim while holding a trident. Because I’m from a landlocked state, I did very little research before enlisting. One of the first nights there, we were all asked if we knew how to play a musical instrument. A few of us answered “yes,” and all but the string players were escorted off to a music room and told that we were now part of the recruit band and would be playing for ceremonies as needed. There was no escape from my fate as a guy who wears a uniform and plays music while marching. My basic-training experience was full of marching of all kinds. There was one very short parade at the end of our eight weeks of basic training. It was really just a lap around the grounds to say to everyone “Look at us! Look at what we’ve been working on!” Four years later, I broke formation altogether and embarked on a career as a comedian. No uniforms, no instruments and no more parades. Just a little bit of marching, up to the stage, now by myself, to say “Look at me! Look what I’ve been working on!”