Please note that as of today, I have changed my terms and conditions and updated my Personal Privacy Policy in accordance with the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulations. While the G.D.P.R. is a European law, my Personal Privacy Policy applies to everyone, since I don’t really have any friends who live in Europe. These changes are aimed at clarifying the information I collect and how I use it. If you tell me that I need to keep something 100 percent secret, I will take it to the grave. If you merely say, “Don’t tell anyone,” I might tell my husband, but only because I know he won’t tell anyone else. If you tell me something and then later say, “Don’t tell anyone,” I cannot be expected to uphold this request, because you told me your secret before I agreed to these terms. This particularly applies if several hours have elapsed between the secret and the edict not to tell anyone. If you are my sister and you say, “Don’t tell Mom,” I never tell Mom, and that policy will remain the same. However, if you are my son and you say, “Don’t tell Daddy,” if it’s something really cute, I probably will tell Daddy (although I might add, “Don’t let Johnny know I told you this”). If you drew Minecraft-inspired art on the walls, I definitely have to tell Daddy. As for data storage, I have a notoriously terrible memory. Therefore, I am unlikely to store your personal data for any length of time. For my neighbors who have given me the code to their alarm system, I have probably forgotten it and have not written it down anywhere, so you’ll have to just tell me again the next time you want me to feed your cat while you’re away. If I met you once, particularly if I met you along with many other people at the same time, there is a 5 percent chance of me remembering your name. If you have more than one child and they look anything alike at all, the chances of me mixing up your children’s names are 75 percent, even though I have tried to create a mnemonic device to remember which kid is which. You can now ask me when your birthday is and I will have to honestly tell you I have no idea without consulting Facebook. Thank you for being my friend. I hope you will continue to enjoy my friendship and ability to keep most things private. As always, if you have any questions about these changes to my Personal Privacy Policy, feel free to reach out. My Personal Privacy Policy dictates that I will not share any messages I receive with anyone else, unless they’re really funny, in which case any expectation of privacy becomes null and void.