This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Two disturbing stories about immigrants have been getting attention in recent days: one, that the federal government has lost track of almost 1,500 immigrant children; and, two, that the Trump administration has begun separating children from their parents at the United States-Mexico border. Both stories are true. But the first seems to be less alarming than it initially sounds — while the second is deeply alarming. I wanted to offer a quick overview. First, the missing children: A federal official acknowledged during recent Senate testimony that the government no longer knew where 1,475 undocumented immigrant children were located. These children were among more than 7,600 who had recently come to the border unaccompanied. Most were living with an adult sponsor, who had agreed to take them in, but 1,475 couldn’t be accounted for. “It certainly sounds bad,” Ephrat Livni of Quartz writes. But “many of those missing kids may well be with their parents or families, and they may have gone off the grid deliberately to avoid Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) authorities. Tracking them down could end up endangering more children and families.” “The potential for it backfiring is real,” Josie Duffy Rice, a lawyer with the Fair Punishment Project tweeted. “You’re asking immigration authorities in TRUMPS AMERICA to BETTER MONITOR UNDOCUMENTED CHILDREN AND THEIR FAMILIES. You don’t want this. I promise you don’t.” It’s also possible that some of the missing children are indeed at grave risk — having been trafficked, for example, as Dara Lind of Vox notes. But many people have jumped to the conclusion that the bulk of the children are at risk; it remains unclear how many, if any, are. In The Times, the reporter Amy Harmon has a Q&A with more detail. As for the parent-child separations: It’s a result of a new policy announced this month by Jeff Sessions, the attorney general. Under the policy, the federal government will attempt to prosecute everybody found to be crossing the Southwest border illegally, even if they are seeking asylum. “The consequence,” writes Amy B. Wang of The Washington Post, “is that children will be separated from their parents as the adults are charged with a crime, even if the adults are seeking asylum and present themselves at official ports of entry.” “This is the worst thing I’ve seen in 25-plus years of doing this civil rights work,” Lee Gelernt of the American Civil Liberties Union told Chris Hayes of MSNBC. “I am talking to these mothers and they are describing their kids screaming, ‘Mommy, Mommy, don’t let them take me away!’ ” In The Washington Post, Catherine Rampell connects the family separations to the Republicans’ broader immigration policy. In The Times. Jennifer Wilson, a scholar of Russian literature, mentions my favorite current podcast, “In the Dark,” in a piece titled, “How Dostoyevsky Predicted the ‘True Crime’ Craze.”