SYDNEY, Australia — I have spent most of my life among the mostly white and Australian-born. But slowly over the last few years I have been moving beyond the comfort of my own ethnic group. I hadn’t chosen to exist in an ethnic enclave — at least, I never realized it was something I had chosen. It just happened that the suburbs I lived in had the architecture my ethnic group admires (Victorian and crumbling) and the food we like to eat. The job I had chosen — working in the predominantly white media — was one that had some status in my society. Then, a few years back, after the age of 30, I started studying to be a doctor, and working in the public health system, and everything changed. Through medical school and now in my work, I have had the privilege of diving into a world where diversity is not the topic of a panel discussion — it is life. For the first time I am in an environment where my ethnicity is regularly in the minority, among the staff and the patients. We are Australian but at the same time we are Indian, Malaysian, Vietnamese, Sudanese, Polish, Filipino. Aboriginal, Lebanese, Tongan, Chinese, Nigerian. It is a world of Dari and Dinka interpreters, and Persian New Year sweets at the morning handover meeting. A place where some take vacation to visit Mecca and where Chinese film stars are discussed in broad Aussie accents. It is one of the things I have loved most about being a doctor. In some ways, multiculturalism among workers in the medical field, which is common around the world, is diversity in its least challenging form. We all have jobs, whether we were born here or moved here, on some level our lives are working out, and our common profession gives us a common language. It is not always the same for some of our patients, for whom Australia may have offered little but alcoholism and a dead-end job in a chicken-processing factory. There are times when I fear we offer our immigrant patients “services” and “resources” but not a sense of belonging. For other recent arrivals there can be a joy at being here that embarrasses me, given that I have taken this place for granted. I have learned so much from my colleagues and patients, about them and about myself. I have discovered that it is possible to arrange evening social events that are not centered on alcohol, unthinkable among white Australians. I have discovered other night lives in my city that I have not been a part of before, like chocolate cafes and karaoke lounges. It has made me more aware of even having an ethnicity, for better and for worse. It is easy to recognize the problems of other ethnic groups: arranged marriages gone bad, unwanted girl children. It is harder to face the problems that others might see in my own ethnic group — casual divorce, casual sex, casual abandonment of the elderly. But I’ve also learned to stand up for, and explain, my culture. I remember a conversation about premarital sex. “Excuse me, that is part of my culture,” I said. My mother would have been horrified if I married someone without first having sex with that person. I have learned to wear such differences lightly, with good humor, to see the good as well as the bad in other ways of doing things. For that is one of the greatest strengths of multiculturalism, that we can learn from each other, change and improve. I have seen how quickly people who are angry and frustrated can turn to race as an insult. I have comforted colleagues who have been subjected to racial slurs, told to take the next boat back to Africa. I’ve learned what it is like to hear someone talking about your ethnic group, thinking none of you are in the room. “Australia isn’t just dumb white Aussies anymore,” a man says, and then turns and sees me and says, “Oh.” We are living multiculturalism, muddling through it. It is not perfect, but it is glorious and I would never go back. I have come to believe Anglo-Celtic Australia needs to work harder to integrate into this new mainstream, not expect the job of integration to be the responsibility of those who are not white, or who were born elsewhere. At the same time I know there are many white Australians who are desperate to do this, but find few opportunities to integrate organically. In the absence of true connections, we eat, using lemongrass, chili peppers and naan as culinary substitutes for integration. Or we ask taxi drivers, “So where are you from?” Sometimes I fear both the left and the right have it wrong when it comes to integration. The dominant narrative on the left seems to be about policing the boundaries between groups, guarding against cultural appropriation, monitoring language for offense. Even worse, on the right, integration has been co-opted and turned into something punitive. Citizenship tests, head-scarf bans, language lessons enforced as if they are a punishment. What can be lost is the value of good will. I once learned, on the very different topic of grief, that sometimes you can get so caught up worrying about saying the wrong thing that you end up saying nothing, and that is the worst thing of all. We need to keep stumbling toward each other, with good will and humility, nurturing connections that are real, knowing there will be times when we get it wrong, listening and adjusting as we go, but moving toward each other nonetheless.