This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Puerto Rico. When President Trump traveled to Puerto Rico last October after Hurricane Maria, he touted the storm’s low death toll as proof that his administration had done its job well. “Every death is a horror,” he said. “But if you look at a real catastrophe like Katrina … what is your death count, as of this moment? 17?” He was very wrong. The true death toll could exceed 4,600, according to a study published this week in The New England Journal of Medicine that appears to be the most rigorous count yet. Many of the victims likely died from delayed medical care, which is something that a competent government response could have avoided. Puerto Rico’s fatality count is now more than twice as high as the Katrina count that Trump called a “real catastrophe.” It’s easy to overlook Puerto Rico with everything else going on — the latest news about Trump’s apparent efforts to obstruct justice, his continuing criticism of his own attorney general and so on. But I urge you to not forget Puerto Rico. Here is a selection of commentary on the new study: “There are life-and-death consequences to putting someone like Donald Trump in command of the federal government,” Slate’s Jamelle Bouie writes. “The profound failure of leadership and management that Trump’s critics feared has actually happened, and we are just now learning the scale of that disaster.” “If we had a responsible Congress that took oversight seriously there would be a top-to-bottom review” of the administration’s response, writes The Washington Post’s Jennifer Rubin. “But don’t hold your breath.” On Twitter, Refinery29’s Andrea González-Ramírez has compiled a list of the dead and invites others to add their loved ones’ names. “Most of these deaths were preventable,” she writes. Puerto Rico’s crisis isn’t only Trump’s fault. As NPR’s Laura Sullivan has documented for Frontline, decades of irresponsible loans, lack of oversight from Washington and bad financial decisions by Puerto Rico’s leaders also played a role. They hurt the island’s economy and infrastructure, worsening the hurricane’s impact. The study’s methodology is unavoidably imprecise, explains The Atlantic’s Vann R. Newkirk II. The actual toll could be higher or lower than 4,600. Almost certainly, though, “Hurricane Maria is one of the most significant and destructive natural disasters in recent American history,” he writes. About 30,000 people in Puerto Rico still lack electricity, Emily Atkin of The New Republic notes. They lack it, she explains, because of a combination of government incompetence and neglect. This year’s hurricane season starts Friday. Several vulnerable areas in the United States, including Puerto Rico, seem prepared to distribute food and water more quickly than last year. But many dangers remain. “We have not fixed the underlying major problem, which is an utterly non-resilient infrastructure that at the end of the day will determine how much suffering there is after a large storm,” Irwin Redlener, the director of Columbia University’s National Center for Disaster Preparedness, told Atkin. Good news on Medicaid. Virginia’s Senate voted to expand Medicaid yesterday, making Virginia the 33rd state to accept the expansion from Obamacare. To attract Republican votes, the Virginia plan includes some restrictions and higher costs, which will modestly reduce its benefits — but only modestly. The expansion will extend health insurance to about 400,000 lower-income Virginians. “This is a major victory that will transform the lives of hundreds of thousands of families,” Topher Spiro of the Center for American Progress said on Twitter. “Elections have consequences: The blue wave that swept Virginia made this victory possible after many years of GOP opposition.”