Every June, with the arrival of Pride Month, we take time to evaluate legislative actions, court decisions and public opinion shifts as measures of the state of L.G.B.T. rights.  For me, an observer of politics and a numbers guy, these metrics are my stock in trade. But this year, I found perhaps the most significant indicator of the prevailing cultural vibe, to my surprise, in country music. One of the most popular songs on country radio in 2018 has been Luke Bryan’s “Most People Are Good.” The song faithfully serves up genre-typical lyrics like “I believe most mommas oughta qualify for sainthood” and “most Friday nights look better under neon or stadium lights” — but the chorus also contains a clear pro-L.G.B.T. declaration: “I believe you love who you love/Ain’t nothing you should ever be ashamed of.” And in case fans were tempted to interpret this lyric in other ways, Mr. Bryan’s music video features gay couples and same-gender parent family configurations among a diverse montage of “good” people. Mr. Bryan didn’t write the song — the title itself was born out of the country songwriter Josh Kear’s struggle to process the divisive 2016 presidential elections, and the song was ultimately a collaborative effort with David Frasier and Ed Hill — but he said he knew he wanted to record the song the first time he heard it. As he put it: “I think it’s a song that the songwriters wrote perfectly from A to Z; not one wasted lyric in that thing. Anytime you can find a song that does that, I think it’s something special.” Rather than generating protests or public outcry, this song has dominated country music radio since its debut in late 2017. It broke into the Top 10 in February, and it has remained at the top of the air wave charts, occupying the No. 1 slot for three weeks. It’s also notable that Mr. Bryan is no progressive crusader out to make a political statement. A Georgia native, he is as mainstream as it gets, with previous hits that include lyrics that would make many liberals cringe, such as “Country Girl (Shake It for Me)” on his album “Tailgates & Tanlines.” When asked about “Most People Are Good,” Mr. Bryan has simply replied, “It just seems like it’s the right song for people to hear with everything going on in our world today.” For Mr. Bryan, and for many country fans today, pro-L.G.B.T. lyrics exist comfortably within a new country worldview. While “Most People Are Good” was topping the charts, there was another major event in the country-music world signaling strong support for L.G.B.T. rights. In early March, the former Arkansas governor and Trump campaign surrogate Mike Huckabee resigned within 24 hours of his appointment to the board of the Country Music Association Foundation, the charitable and educational arm of the C.M.A. At issue, raised by several C.M.A. board members and prominent industry leaders, was Mr. Huckabee’s history of anti-gay remarks. Jason Owen, a co-president of Monument Records and chief executive of Sandbox Entertainment, wrote a strong letter of protest to the C.M.A. leadership, threatening to withdraw the A-list artists he represents from C.M.A. charitable work if Mr. Huckabee stayed on the board. Citing his own family — Mr. Owen and his husband, Sam, have one child and twins on the way — he wrote that Mr. Huckabee’s statements about the L.G.B.T. community, such as comparing gay marriage to incest and polygamy, “made it clear my family is not welcome in his America.” Whitney Pastorek, a longtime C.M.A. member and prominent agent, wrote similarly to the C.M.A. leadership: “What a terrible disappointment” to see the C.M.A. Foundation’s mission “clouded by the decision to align with someone who so frequently engages in the language of racism, sexism, and bigotry.” The C.M.A. board was deluged with email and social media calls to rescind the invitation to Mr. Huckabee and threats of boycotts at C.M.A. events. Mr. Huckabee quickly conceded and resigned, but not without writing his own long protest letter on his website in which he absurdly declared, “The message here is ‘Hate Wins.’” Part of the story is the growth and increasing crossover appeal of country music — approximately four in 10 Americans today are country music consumers. The popularity of country music has seen strong growth among millennials between the ages of 18 and 24, with listenership up 54 percent since 2005. Country music is as popular among millennials as it is among baby boomers, a fact not lost on C.M.A. leadership. A recent large national survey of over 40,000 interviews conducted by P.R.R.I., where I serve as chief executive, provides a stereotype-busting portrait of where likely young country music fans are on L.G.B.T. rights. Among young white, non-Hispanic adults (ages 18 to 29) in the South and Midwest, fully three-quarters (75 percent) favor allowing gay and lesbian couples to marry legally, and a similar percentage favor laws that would protect L.G.B.T. people against discrimination in jobs, public accommodations and housing. On a key question currently before the Supreme Court — whether a small-business owner can refuse to provide products or services to gay or lesbian people on religious grounds — young white adults in the South and Midwest oppose such religious liberty claims by two to one (64 percent oppose, 32 percent favor). Even if we narrow the lens to young whites in the four states with the highest concentrations of country music fans — Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee and Kentucky — the numbers are virtually identical. Pride month will no doubt feature all manner of quantifiable assessments of the current cultural milieu. But by my lights, this revolution on the unlikely terrain of country music is the sturdier evidence of just how much the nation has changed its tune on L.G.B.T. rights.