This weekend we are sharing some pieces about that basic human need: shelter. How do we find a place to live — and what happens once we move in? “First things first,” the financial planner said. “You need to buy some property.” The contributing opinion writer Jennine Capó Crucet did what anyone under 35 does in a moment like that: She tweeted, “Someone tell me if I should buy a house?”  From David Brooks: “The neighborhood you choose, and the social fabric you enter, is more important than the structure you adore.” For most people, cruising is an occasional vacation. For Mario Salcedo, the subject of this short Op-Doc film, it’s his everyday life. He’s lived on cruise ships for 20 years. Renters, this is a message from the other side. Bert Stratton collect stories and hardships — and rent. One of his rules for tenants: “Do whatever you want in your apartment, but outside we’re all going to act middle class.” The Midwestern landscape I’d felt so ready to abandon became precious to me, writes Casey Walker. It was the first world my daughter would see.  “I was getting ready for bed when I heard sirens,” writes Megan Stielstra. “It happened so fast: One day we had a home and then — snap your fingers.”   “I want to speak for the victimized children of our country who aren’t even fully cognizant of their own poverty,” said the photojournalist Craig Blankenhorn. In 2012, he shared images that captured the struggles of young people battered by bad luck. Maeve Higgins on the pain of losing a good deal on an apartment: “I did what we must all do when New York rejects us. I went to New Jersey.”  What is it like to get to know the people you’ve been watching from across the street? Hear about going from voyeur to friend, from both sides. We hurt ourselves by making strangers of the people who live nearby, writes Marc J. Dunkelman. Invest some additional time getting to know your neighbors. A 2008 essay by Peter Lovenheim still resonates: “There’s talk today about how as a society we’ve become fragmented by ethnicity, income, city versus suburb, red state versus blue. But we also divide ourselves with invisible dotted lines. I’m talking about the property lines that isolate us from the people we are physically closest to: our neighbors.” We’ve been curating some of the best reads from the Opinion section each weekend. Here are earlier collections on love and relationships; the wonders of nature; confronting death; and how we view money.