The Trump administration has made three reckless moves on trade in recent days. On May 23, it launched an investigation into whether imports of cars and S.U.V.s threaten the national security of the United States. Then President Trump signaled that he’d let Chinese telecommunications giant ZTE off the hook, despite its “false statements” and repeated violations of United States sanctions on North Korea or Iran. Thursday brought a third misguided decision to impose tariffs on steel and aluminum from our staunchest allies, including Canada and the European Union, again contending that their exports threaten our national security. “Economic security is military security,” Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross has said. But this administration’s push to blur, or even erase, the line between our economic and national security interests is dangerous — both for the United States and for the world. First, the Trump administration is making overly broad interpretations of national security and then insisting these claims cannot be challenged. These actions undermine international law and threaten the rules-based global trading system. The law being invoked to justify these new tariffs was crafted during the Cold War. It gives the president broad power to ensure that the United States is not overly dependent on imports for critical defense needs, especially imports from countries we don’t trust to supply us in times of war. [Receive arguments and opinions on the pressing social issues and hidden stories around the World Cup right in your inbox. Sign up for Offsides.] International law is more precise. It allows countries to pile on tariffs or take other actions that would otherwise violate their trade commitments when they judge them necessary to protect their essential security interests. This exception applies only in cases related to trade in nuclear materials, arms or ammunition; or during war or international emergency. Mr. Trump’s tariffs do not fit within any of those boxes. Those who crafted the “national security” exception to the international trading rules tried to balance every country’s need to judge their own national security risks with the concern that an open-ended exception would be misused. Hence, “national security” is limited to cases involving emergencies, war and weapons. The Trump administration has upset that balance. If the United States can justify tariffs on cars as a threat to national security, then every country in the world can most likely justify restrictions on almost any product under a similar claim. For more than two decades after the World Trade Organization was created in 1995, no claim for breaking the trade rules through the national security exception had ever reached a W.T.O. dispute settlement panel. None of the member countries wanted to allow the “nameless, faceless” bureaucrats in Geneva to define their essential security interests. That changed in 2017, with a claim by Russia, which had imposed myriad trade and transit restrictions on Ukraine, which challenged the Russian measures at the W.T.O. In the dispute, Russia contends that the moment any country claims its actions are based on national security, the judges hearing the case must put down their pens and go home. The only W.T.O. member joining Russia’s contention is the United States. This is dangerous. It provides all countries with a “get out of jail free” card that can be played just by saying the magic words “national security.” Blurring the line between economic and national security also invites retaliation. The United States agreed to eliminate steel tariffs and lower aluminum tariffs to below 5 percent in 1995 in exchange for tariff cuts by others. Now, by imposing 25 percent tariffs on steel and 10 percent on aluminum, the United States has broken that commitment. And by imposing the tariffs on some but not all trading partners (South Korea, Australia, Argentina and Brazil are exempt), the United States has also broken its commitment not to discriminate among W.T.O. members. Already our partners are reacting. China has placed tariffs on American exports of nuts, fruits, wine, pork and some steel pipes. Canada, the European Union, Mexico, Japan, India, Turkey and Russia may impose their own retaliatory tariffs. This adds tremendous chaos to the trading system and may signal the start of a global trade war. Moreover, the Trump administration is sacrificing real national security concerns for short-term economic gains. How else to describe a decision to dispose of the Commerce Department’s settlement with ZTE? It followed a multiyear investigation finding 380 alleged and admitted violations of American law by the Chinese telecomm giant. These included conspiracies, false statements and deceptions to obtain contracts to supply, build, and operate telecommunications networks in Iran, and to illegally ship telecommunications equipment to North Korea. If we impose tariffs on steel and cars based on a claim that those imports threaten our national security, what will we do if and when our national security is really threatened? Auto production in the United States has more than doubled since 2009, and imports of Chinese steel have fallen by nearly 75 percent since their 2014 peak. Why attack imports from longstanding allies now? Especially when it does nothing to target China’s massive subsidies, intellectual property theft, and unfair takeovers of technology — actions that truly threaten our national security. Erasing the line dividing national security from economic security threatens both. Congress needs to recognize the danger and limit the president’s authority to raise the specter of national security at every turn. At the same time, Congress must ensure that genuine concerns are not traded away for limited economic gains. Cavalier use of rarely invoked laws will only undermine their purpose and put the trading system at risk.