The Moody Bible Institute in Chicago seems like the last place in which to expect a scandal over Title IX. Moody is one of the most conservative Christian colleges in the country, and Title IX’s authority is diminished these days. Last year, the White House rescinded the Obama administration’s stricter enforcement of the federal law against sex discrimination in educational programs that receive federal financial aid. Moreover, under President Trump, the Justice Department seems disinclined to challenge conservative Christians’ insistence that the First Amendment exempts their institutions from the full force of anti-discrimination laws. Yet recent events at Moody show that religious freedom does more than protect the dissenting views of minority groups — it encourages members of those groups to fight vigorously among themselves. In January, a former Moody communications instructor named Janay Garrick filed a suit in Federal District Court. She accused Moody of “discrimination and retaliation,” charging that the school fired her for such insubordinate acts as helping female students file Title IX complaints about the pastoral ministry program, which was then restricted to men and still excludes women from some parts of the major. She also counseled lesbian and transgender students and collected the testimonies of female students who reported sexual assaults and harassment, according to court documents. (Moody declined to comment.) Moody, like many evangelical and fundamentalist schools, adheres to a “complementarian” theology of gender — meaning that God created men and women for separate, complementary roles in family and church life. “If a church or parachurch organization has no watchdog and will do as it will under religious freedom, and women are pulled down a slope, and told they can’t understand or handle religious texts, and they’re being harassed and raped, then our Christian liberty has gone too far,” Ms. Garrick told me. Conservative critics have charged that Moody’s decision to hire someone like Ms. Garrick — who had said in her job interview that she is a gender egalitarian as well as an ordained minister — reveals broader theological confusion. Audrey Belcher, a recent graduate of Moody and one of the few women to major in theology there, said that some male professors encouraged her to pursue an academic career, although no women serve on Moody’s theology faculty. “They said, ‘If you want to teach, you should do that.’ I pointed out to one of my teachers that I couldn’t teach at Moody even if I was qualified,” she told me. “He had the view that this was something they were working on.” The tumult at Moody reflects a larger pattern in evangelical higher education. Internal turmoil — over sex and gender as well as racial justice — continues despite every sign that government pressure on these schools has abated. White House policies cannot halt the undertow of generational change, and may even accelerate it, because a modest but meaningful resistance to evangelical support for Mr. Trump is brewing on many Christian campuses. Such turmoil does not herald a wholesale reversal of white evangelical politics. But something is happening: Last week, the board of Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in Fort Worth voted to remove its longtime president, Paige Patterson, after revelations that he made lewd comments about a teenage girl’s appearance and advised women to remain with husbands who abused them. A culture’s institutions of higher education are canaries in the culture war coal mine: They struggle with ideological shifts before these changes are apparent in the broader community. These controversies at Christian schools reveal the further fracturing of white evangelical consensus. They remind us that top-down intercession by government agencies and the courts often lags behind, and depends on, grass-roots change. Despite lawsuits like Ms. Garrick’s, the court system does not present the greatest challenge to evangelicals who govern their institutions according to traditional doctrines of sexuality. American courts have generally opted for a broad interpretation of the religious freedom exemption from anti-discrimination laws. The major exception was the 1983 case Bob Jones University v. United States, in which the Supreme Court found that the First Amendment did not prevent the Internal Revenue Service from revoking a Christian fundamentalist school’s tax-exempt status because of its ban on interracial dating and marriage. Are rules that prevent gay students from dating, or block women from enrolling in some programs, the legal and moral equivalent of racism? “All these questions come down to the big question of whether traditional views about sexuality are going to be equated with views about race in the Jim Crow South,” said John Inazu, a professor of law at Washington University in St. Louis. “If the answer is yes, that’s an equation that holds, then religious liberty protections, no matter how they are framed, will not be successful.” Evangelicals themselves are far from settled on this question. Today, many evangelical campuses are diverse assemblies of Christians from a range of cultural, ethnic and theological backgrounds. Some students are experimenting with a new politics, a middle way between secular progressivism and the Moral Majority worldview of their parents’ generation. It’s this steady escalation of grass-roots dissent that will have the greatest consequences, just as it did in the dismantling of segregation. The courts played a crucial role in ending segregation, but Jim Crow ultimately collapsed because black Americans themselves decided they would not tolerate it anymore. By contrast, until recently, sex discrimination has remained relatively acceptable in evangelical culture because so many evangelical women embrace complementarian theology. “There are women who assert their own agency to be in gendered, hierarchical organizations, and there is a liberal norm underlying their right to be in these organizations,” said Mr. Inazu. But the terms of debate are shifting. In February, a small group of conservative professors and staff members at Taylor University in Upland, Ind., published an anonymous newsletter lamenting the “permissive views of human sexuality, hostility toward creationist perspectives, rejection of the rule of law (especially on the immigration issue) and uncritical endorsement of liberal-progressive ideas” on campus. Students reacted furiously, and the university president condemned the authors for “hurting members of our community.” Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich., has responded to students’ desire to discuss topics that were once taboo with a “sexuality series” that includes lectures and discussions on the Me Too movement, homosexuality and feminism. “Many young people have a different perspective than that of their parents,” said Julia Smith, who directs the series. “They’ve grown up at a time when it’s far more accepted to be out as a sexual- or gender-minority person, and it’s less of a hot-button issue because it’s about their friends.” Historically, evangelical colleges have often been sites of generational conflict and ideological strife. Many have evolved over the past half-century to become more theologically and culturally inclusive, and more open to mainstream academic inquiry, even if they still police its boundaries. Sometimes external forces, like government policy and secular accreditors, have hastened change, in part because they coincided with pressure within the institutions themselves — particularly pressure from tuition-paying students having hard conversations about their beliefs and their relationship to secular culture. Ashley Brimmage graduated last month from Biola University in La Mirada, Calif., where she was an editor at the campus newspaper and covered campus controversies over race, sex and Title IX. Ms. Brimmage told me that she became more progressive in her time at the conservative evangelical school. When she entered Biola, “I don’t think I had an opinion about anything — I was concerned about making friends, what boys were in my class,” she said. “But I’ve prayed to the Lord to give me convictions, passions and wisdom to navigate the politically charged times in which we live.” She lamented the close association of white evangelicalism with Donald Trump. “The one good thing about our current administration is that it’s causing people to learn about themselves, what they believe, what they’re angered by, and it has served that purpose for me,” she said. Ms. Brimmage is not a typical Biola student, but she is not unusual either. There is a small but increasingly vocal progressive community on campus, including L.G.B.T. organizations. When Biola applied for an exemption from the Obama administration’s interpretation of Title IX in 2016, students protested. I asked Ms. Brimmage how she came to her views on gender and racial justice. Did she encounter a new theological argument in a book or a class? “The biggest answer is relationships with others, not working through these things on paper,” she said. Female mentors and friendships with gay and nonwhite students compelled her to revise her theology (almost half of Biola’s students are now nonwhite or international). But she went on to cite formative encounters with books, too, like Sarah Bessey’s “Jesus Feminist,” which helped her interpret her experiences. “Jesus intentionally chose women,” Ms. Brimmage said. “He chose Mary as the first person to see him after his resurrection. There was intention behind his choosing women to minister to men in ways that maybe men couldn’t minister to one another. It doesn’t make sense that gender is something that keeps someone from becoming a pastor, that because of the body parts you’re born with, you’d therefore be disqualified from leading in ministry.” How do people change their minds? How does a culture shift? Ideological debate, it seems, evolves in a fitful relationship with personal experience. Christian colleges are fertile ground for political ferment because they include students of all sexual and racial identities, enrolled in theology classes, attending chapel together and grappling with traditional interpretations of scripture rather than cordoning off its claims, as a secular education might encourage them to do. Title IX should be the least of conservatives’ worries — because some of their own students are prepared to change evangelical culture even when court cases fail.