“Why do black people still live in the South?” a black friend from Chicago asked me last year, genuinely bewildered. She had just seen the film “Mudbound,” which tells the story of a black family and a white family living intimately, side by side, in post-World War II Mississippi. It was inconceivable to her that anyone would want to live in an environment where black people had faced the kind of poverty and brutality that was depicted in the film, and she wanted me, as someone who grew up in Alabama, to explain. My friend was viewing the Deep South through the lens that popular culture and most of the country outside the South also use — the same stereotypes I heard when I left Alabama to go to college in the Northeast. I encountered classmates who thought they were surer about the South than I was — it was too racist, too religious, too backward, too conservative, even though they’d never been there. And so Alabama voters surprised observers last December, when they sent Doug Jones to the Senate in a special election — the first time an Alabama Democrat had won a seat in that chamber since 1992. This fall, Democrats hope to elect more candidates to offices around the state and through the South. Stacey Abrams won the Democratic primary for governor in Georgia last month, becoming the first black female candidate for governor from a major party in the United States. Liberals around the country are feeling cautiously optimistic as they look to the midterms. Alabama is having its primary on Tuesday. Emily Jortner, volunteer coordinator of the Lee County Democratic Club, a social club made up largely of white progressives, said she will be watching two first-time candidates — a former Miss America, Mallory Hagan, and a psychologist, Adia McClellan Winfrey — vie for the Democratic nomination in the Third Congressional District. The winner will face the Republican incumbent, Mike Rogers. “There are so many people running in the state that there just aren’t enough Democratic political operatives to work on their campaigns — it’s exciting,” Ms. Jortner said. “I don’t think polling is going to tell us what will happen in November; I don’t think past races will either. We’re sort of in the Bermuda Triangle right now.” And as the race between Mr. Jones and his Republican opponent, Roy Moore, showed, the country has much to learn about the South. After that election, I spent time back in Alabama, talking to people who had watched it unfold and exploring why the nuances of the region were still so misunderstood. Dana Sweeney, a young organizer in Montgomery with Hometown Action, which does nonpartisan canvassing in small towns and rural areas, said the group’s priorities of racial justice, gender equity, access to health care and environmental justice weren’t out of place in those communities. “There’s a perspective that those are values you wouldn’t find in rural spaces in the Deep South, but they’re there,” he said. In the void of a state Democratic Party that nearly went bankrupt a few years ago, Mr. Jones’s campaign was largely supported by grass-roots voter outreach — and helped by out-of-state funding. The story in Alabama was not what to make of the allegations of sexual misconduct against Mr. Moore, residents told me, but how people who had never been politically active have suddenly become so. Sharyn Pulling works with Alabama Together, which is helping support about a dozen women running for office for the first time, part of a surge of new Democratic candidates in the state challenging long-serving Republican incumbents. “We got stuck in a political rut, where people thought, ‘Things aren’t going to change and Alabama is what it is,’” Ms. Pulling told me. “But people realized they can make waves, if not change things overnight, and fight against what seems like the inevitable.” The election of Mr. Jones nearly eclipsed another victory for progressives in the state: the election of Randall Woodfin, a Democrat, as the mayor of Birmingham; at 36, he became the city’s youngest mayor in more than 100 years. His campaign workers, he told me, knocked on 50,000 doors; part of that effort was to listen to what people said mattered to them. “They think that Democrats as an institution, the establishment, are out of touch,” he said. The outreach worked: more than 5,000 people between the ages of 18 and 35 voted in a municipal election for the first time. “Alabama has been written off for a long time,” Mr. Woodfin said. “The national and international attention on the special Senate election was more about: ‘Here we go again. Alabama is doing something that’s not in its best interests, and is going to be an embarrassment.’ ” Ms. Jortner of the Lee County Democratic Club, whose husband is running for local office, said, half-jokingly, that one of the club’s missions was to remove stigma and “make it O.K. to be a Democrat in Alabama.” Kynesha Brown runs voter-registration drives with a group called Rollin to the Polls, working in mostly black and Latino areas. “If the state Democratic Party was more of a well-oiled machine and more in tune with the people they represent, Alabama could be on the pathway to being a purple state,” she said. Instead, politicians have neglected low-income and rural communities in the state. That is in addition to the disenfranchisement of potential voters who don’t possess acceptable forms of identification or who have been convicted of felonies and still have outstanding legal financial obligations (rules that disproportionately affect African-Americans). At the heart of the question over the representation of the Deep South is another question, that of the worth of a place, and why people choose to call it home. I’ve long seen a strain of thinking that residents of rural areas, with their failing infrastructure, closing health centers and diminishing jobs, should simply leave, pick up and move to cities for more opportunities and a higher standard of living. Why stay in a place that is falling apart? Or that has a history of oppressing people who look like you? But over a family’s generations in one place, the idea of home solidifies, becomes unshakable. Practically, home is also where a family’s emotional and financial support network is. So even during times of upheaval — the Great Migration, periods of racial unrest and economic downturn — many native and longtime Southerners stay put. The South also attracts outsiders looking for a better life; my own parents are immigrants and met as students at an Alabama university, and their close friends are immigrants who came to the state to study and work, too. Ask anyone living outside the Deep South about it now, and you’ll usually hear a term: Trump Country. It’s where some of his most fervent supporters are. Last year, I attended a Confederate memorial rally near my hometown that was filled with hundreds of white working-class people, several of whom told me that their idea of the Confederate legacy was desperately vital to their sense of identity. But Alabama is also a place where the black working class, a group often left out of the discussion about the country’s blue-collar workers, is largely responsible for one of the biggest electoral upsets of our time. A significant number of black women are now running for office in the state. This is a key part of what Alabama looks like going into the midterms. How can we start to include that complexity when we talk about the South?