Can President Trump be compelled to testify in response to a criminal subpoena and, even more consequentially, can a sitting president be criminally indicted? In a confidential letter for the special counsel, Robert Mueller, Mr. Trump’s lawyers lay out an aggressive defense against the special counsel’s pursuit of the president’s testimony. Their answer to first of those questions is a categorical no. The letter is more monarchal than respectful of the separation of powers and our democracy’s constitutional checks and balances. Its claims that the president can “order the termination of an investigation by the Justice Department or F.B.I. at any time and for any reason” is unprecedented and far exceeds even Harry Truman’s brazen and rejected attempt to take over the steel mills to blunt labor unrest in the 1950s. In fact, the letter’s absence of meaningful constitutional inquiry beyond baldfaced claims that Article II establishes a unitary executive gives the impression that these questions have gone unexamined. But many Americans have wrestled with these questions. In the late 1980s, I headed the Office of Legal Counsel, an elite division within the Department of Justice. In 1988, with a White House entangled by Iran-contra, the O.L.C. was asked whether a president could be ordered to comply with a criminal subpoena seeking his testimony. We also responded in the negative — but it was not a simple, categorical no. The presidential subpoena is a valid legal tool, as Chief Justice Warren Burger made clear in United States v. Nixon, but a president may find case-specific reasons to resist it. Recall that Richard Nixon had to give up his tapes — but the narrow ruling regarded pre-existing documents (as opposed to testimony), and the president himself was not the criminal defendant. The Supreme Court explicitly noted the absence of “a claim of need to protect military, diplomatic or sensitive national security secrets.” Watergate history affirms the common-law maxim that the law is entitled to every person’s evidence, but the court is sensitive to both interference with presidential responsibility and refusals for information anchored within executive privilege or the protection of open investigations. Who decides when a presidential interview can be refused or subpoena quashed? The authors of the letter think the question is answered by a lower-court ruling, United States vs. Espy, decided in 1997 during the presidency of Bill Clinton. The letter claims that to overcome a privilege claim, special counsel must show that evidence is obtainable from no other source than the president. This is overstatement. The court of appeals speculated that the ruling would delay obtaining evidence, not preclude it. The letter’s position also draws anachronistically upon an early theory of Thomas Jefferson — that each branch determines its own constitutional meaning. In United States v. Burr (1807), Thomas Jefferson argued that while a court can issue a subpoena to the president, it is the president who decides how it is enforced. To drive home his point, Jefferson submitted the subpoenaed material with portions blotted out. Somewhat surprisingly, the presiding judge, Chief Justice John Marshall, did not object. John Marshall’s non-objection was anomalous; he is revered for the proposition that ultimately it is the Supreme Court that says “what the law is.” Nothing in Espy repeals this first principle of judicial review. President Trump cannot simply ignore an interview request or subpoena from Mr. Mueller or decide unilaterally what to provide. There may be no definitive Supreme Court ruling, but as the court summarized in Clinton v. Jones (1997), “presidents have (voluntarily) responded to written interrogatories, given depositions, and provided videotaped trial testimony,” even as “no sitting president has ever testified, or been ordered to testify, in open court.” What if a president ignores a subpoena? Laurence Tribe, a law professor at Harvard, has written, “even if courts lack power to enforce a subpoena against a president, presidential defiance of a lawful court order might, in sufficiently serious circumstances, constitute an impeachable offense.” This view is at the opposite categorical extreme to that of the confidential letter. About the only thing one can say for sure about the enforceability of a presidential subpoena is that, should the Trump and Mueller sides fail to agree on a setting for presidential interview, both sides have a basis to litigate the matter tenaciously. The subpoena outcome is necessarily informed by highly contextualized facts. By comparison, the O.L.C.’s answer that a president cannot be criminally indicted before removal is not so circumstantial. It is instead a reaffirmation of the bedrock principle that no person can be a judge in his own case. If a sitting president can be made a defendant in a criminal case, the president is effectively rendered “repugnant” to his office as chief executive. The executive power includes the authority to oversee prosecutions, but it would be ludicrous, as the letter implies, to think the president can self-pardon. Indictment and criminal trial derails a presidency by the compromising stigma’s harming presidential ability to carry out foreign or domestic duties, the toll of making a defense and, of course, jail time. The impeachment process itself would encumber a president’s time and divert his attention from public duties, but this process was explicitly established in the Constitution. The constitutional mechanism for addressing serious misconduct (treason or other high crimes) by a sitting president is impeachment. While the Constitution speaks of high crimes, impeachable matters need not be formally criminal. Irrational belligerence provoking a clandestine war, for example, is not criminal necessarily, but likely within the ambit of a “high crime.” Does the O.L.C.’s constitutional guidance help or hurt the incumbent? Only Mr. Mueller knows for sure, but President Trump might be heartened to learn that a predecessor independent counsel, Lawrence E Walsh, concluded in 1998 “that an independent counsel should not be appointed to investigate matters that occurred before the president was elected, or to investigate purely personal misconduct unrelated to the powers and duties of his office.” Less comforting to the president is that to the extent the letter succeeds in placing the president above the law, the more apparent or tenable impeachment may become. It is possible to contemplate a president who engages in criminal misconduct below the level meriting removal (say, securities law violations). Arguably, the 25th Amendment can be invoked if such lesser criminality renders a president “unable” temporarily to perform executive duties. In that event, hopefully a more law-abiding vice president would be acting president. That our moment in history necessitates that we even contemplate the comparative merits of impeachment versus temporary removal in light of a sliding scale of criminal misconduct is dispiriting. It is more worthy of an episode of “Homeland” than the American history we once proudly taught our children, and believed ourselves.