This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. First, could President Trump really refuse a subpoena to testify in Robert Mueller’s Russia investigation, as Trump’s lawyers have asserted in a letter obtained by The Times? The legal experts Steve Vladeck and Benjamin Wittes are skeptical. In a Lawfare piece on the subject last month, they wrote: “The bottom line, in our view, is that Mueller would probably prevail if and when a battle over a grand-jury subpoena makes its way into court. But it is not a sure thing, and the president has plausible arguments available to him that a court would have to work through before enforcing a subpoena for his testimony.” That same letter from Trump’s lawyers offers yet another admission that the president and his aides have been brashly lying for months — this time about whether Trump dictated a statement from his son Donald Trump Jr. regarding a meeting with Russians. Caroline Orr helpfully points to a CNN video with some of the earlier lies. In The Times, Harry Litman — a former deputy assistant attorney general — explains the central claim of the letter from Trump’s lawyers: that he is above the law. Good political news, really. My column today is about two big pieces of good news that have been partly buried by all things Trump: The United States is slowly moving toward universal prekindergarten and toward universal health insurance. The first piece of good news came from the city of Chicago, which announced it would start universal full-time pre-K. That means its public-school system will now start at age four. Chicago’s move is part of a nationwide trend. About 44 percent of four-year-olds nationwide are enrolled in a public pre-K program, a big increase over the past 15 years. And Virginia expanded its Medicaid program last week, making it the 33rd state to do so. No state that has expanded Medicaid — as part of Obamacare — has later undone the expansion. I argue in the column that Chicago and Virginia together offer a road map for using government as a force for good in the Trump era. For more on pre-K, I recommend this report by the National Institute for Early Education Research, which describes the recent growth and the remaining challenges. In my column, I mentioned research by the economist Elizabeth Cascio on the benefits of universal pre-K. Some other economists prefer targeted government programs that serve only lower-income students. To hear that case, read this op-ed by the economist Art Rolnick. Similarly, The Chicago Tribune worried in an editorial last week that the city’s new program would be too expensive. My view is that universal pre-K brings bigger benefits than targeted programs do, as Cascio’s research shows, and that the long-term returns are hugely positive. I’d be in favor of government cuts to many other programs before cutting — or failing to create — pre-K for budgetary reasons.