If you’re eager to be reminded that humane and inspiring civic leadership still exists, read on. Over the past three years, nine communities in the United States have reached a rigorous standard known as “functional zero” for either veteran or chronic homelessness — a standard that indicates that homelessness is rare and much briefer than in the past for their populations — and 37 others have accomplished measurable reductions toward that goal. What’s illuminating is how they’re doing it: by making whole systems smarter. For the first time, many communities across the country are collecting and maintaining real-time data and lists of the names of people experiencing homelessness, and from those deepening their understanding of the dynamics of a complex and ever-changing problem. They’re also imitating the kind of command-center-led coordination efforts that have been crucial to historic public health victories, such as the eradication of small pox and the near-eradication of polio. And they are linking in a national network, capturing and sharing effective strategies, as they emerge, to improve their performance. Rockford, Ill., was the first community in the United States to reach the functional zero level for veterans and the second to do so for chronic homelessness. “We’ve gone to a centralized system and extremely expanded our outreach,” said Jennifer Jaeger, the city’s community services director. “Every person who is homeless in our community that we are aware of goes on our by-name list, which is broken out by subpopulations: chronic, veteran, family, single and youth.” “Then we get everybody in our community who works on the issue, whether it’s veteran or chronic or youth homelessness, and we bring them into a room,” she added. “So if we’re working on veterans, we’ll have the V.A., the local veteran agencies, mental health agencies and substance abuse agencies, and we’ll sit down with the list and say: ‘O.K., John Smith is No. 1. Who’s working with him? How do we get him housed as fast as we can?’ And we go literally name by name. It makes a huge difference because they stop being ‘the homeless’ and become people we all know. And we become very vested in making sure John Smith is housed and safe and has the services he needs to stay housed.” Angie Walker, the city’s housing advocate, gave an example of the artfulness that effective outreach entails. “I worked with a gentleman who had been homeless for many years,” she recalled. “He’s an alcoholic and he was unwilling to participate in services. I told him, ‘We don’t need you to be sober’ — but he wasn’t having it. But one day I was doing outreach, and it was just starting to get cold. I said: ‘Hey, how would you like some housing? What if we put you up in a hotel tonight until we can find something for you?’ And he said: ‘Is there a television? Can I watch the Cubs in the World Series?’” Yes, of course, he could watch the Cubs, she said. “We kept him there for a couple of weeks,” Ms. Walker added. “He got used to being housed, then he got kicked out for his behavior. But he begged us to work with him. And he’s been housed now for almost two years. It’s been rocky, but to this day if there’s any problem, he’s, ‘Please, I don’t want to go back to the streets.’” “You have to figure out what’s important to people,” she added. “Is it watching the Cubs on TV? Helping them call their family? All that information goes into the by-name list. That’s the big thing: making it personal.” Rockford is one of 77 communities in the United States that are part of the Built for Zero initiative coordinated by Community Solutions, an organization that led the 100,000 Homes Campaign that my colleague, Tina Rosenberg, and I have previously reported on in Fixes (here, here, here and here). The 100,000 Homes Campaign, begun in 2010, aimed to provide permanent supportive housing to that number of people experiencing chronic homelessness. In four years, campaign partners around the country sharply improved their efficiency, collectively placing 105,580 people in permanent supportive housing. However, during that time, national estimates of chronic homelessness decreased by only about 22,000 people. In some places, it didn’t go down at all, because more people were becoming homeless than were getting housed. The 100,000 Homes Campaign was all about counting up to a big goal. In retrospect, that approach still left half the job to figure out — like having a strong offense but not yet knowing much about defense. Built for Zero, by contrast, asks communities to count down to the goal of zero homelessness. To get there, all the organizations working on homelessness in a defined region need to coordinate regularly and tally their respective inflows and outflows. “In most communities working to end homelessness, even if they know that their programs are working individually, they don’t know if it is adding up to fewer homeless people overall,” said Beth Sandor, the founding director of the Built for Zero initiative. To get to zero, detailed data isn’t just helpful; it’s critical to the mission — the key to collaboration. “What our communities have learned is if they want to get to zero, they need to know by name, in real time, more than just who’s actively homeless,” said Rosanne Haggerty, president of Community Solutions. “They need to know who we’ve helped to find housing. Have they returned to homelessness? Because that signals a sustaining and support problem. Who’s new that we’ve never seen before? Because that’s an opportunity to work upstream and figure out what supports are needed to prevent homelessness. You also have to account for people who are passing though homelessness but resolving the problem on their own.” Community Solutions has a crew of 25 people working on the Built for Zero initiative. They focus on helping communities build the collaborations and processes to gather and share real-time data. “More than 60 communities that we’ve worked with now have comprehensive, real-time, person-specific data about the homeless population,” said Jake Maguire, a co-director of Built for Zero. This allows them to experiment with new ideas and get quick feedback. It also makes it possible to respond to needs far more rapidly than in the past. The Gulf Coast of Southern Mississippi, a Continuum-of-Care community that spans six counties, is another region that reached functional zero for veteran homelessness in 2015. Today, any veterans who fall into homelessness there are linked almost immediately to service providers who help them get Veterans Affairs benefits and into housing in less than 30 days. “We’re working to get back to our 2015 average of 11 days,” said Mary Simons, the executive director of Open Doors Homeless Coalition, which leads collaborative efforts in the region. In the Built for Zero methodology, after communities build a local team and are sharing real-time data, the next milestones are achieving steady reductions in homelessness, getting to zero and sustaining it. As they work more effectively, they also focus on other dimensions like youth and family homelessness, which are very different problems and require different responses. The Gulf Coast community has been sustaining zero homelessness for veterans for two years. It has had to be continually vigilant. “In the middle of 2016, we noticed that some of the veterans who had been housed in the big push in 2015 were starting to experience difficulties,” Ms. Simons said. “We saw names starting to come back on the list. ‘My gosh, how do we figure out how to prevent homelessness from someone who’s recently been housed?’ If we didn’t have real-time data, we wouldn’t have known so quickly. We started looking at other parts of our system to see if people started showing up at the food bank or a day shelter before they became homeless.” Sure enough, they did. That allowed them to notify case managers across agencies to do checkups to try to stem the inflow. “Often times those checkups were the difference between that person falling back into homelessness or getting additional assistance,” Ms. Simons said. “Preventing homelessness costs so much less and is less devastating for the person.” Another region that has ended veterans’ homelessness and is closing in on ending chronic homelessness is Montgomery County, Md. Homeless advocates there have also been using name lists not just to identify people who are experiencing chronic homelessness but also to catch people who are on the verge of becoming chronically homeless. They have also taken the unusual step of identifying people in permanent supportive housing who don’t want to be there and would be safe in regular housing, which is less intrusive and less expensive. To make the change happen, however, they needed to persuade the county housing authority to approve funding. “In order to make a successful budget ask, we needed to show that we had looked at programs and found efficiencies,” said Nili Soni, the continuum-of-care coordinator for Montgomery County’s Department of Health and Human Services. The person-level data helped them make the case. All of these local successes get turned into mini case studies and are logged in Built for Zero’s menu of strategies. So if a community partner wants to know how to do effective street outreach or improve housing retention or get more landlords to accept people who have been homeless as tenants, there’s an inventory of proven ideas to draw from. For example, when Ms. Jaeger and Ms. Walker, in Rockford, were looking for ways to encourage landlords to accept higher-risk clients, they read about a community that had created a fund that could reduce the financial risk for landlords. Then they got the local community foundation to do the same. When it comes to ending homelessness, the natural questions are: “Isn’t this about resources? Having enough housing dollars?” Mr. Maguire said. “Yes, more resources are definitely needed, especially in high-cost housing markets. But that won’t get you all the way. Many of our communities already have the resources they need to end veteran homelessness, and the thing holding them back is the challenge of developing a smarter, faster, more coordinated housing system for that money to flow through.” “If you look at what led to the eradication of smallpox,” Ms. Haggerty of Community Solutions said, “it was the construction of a surveillance system — a culture of iteration, habits of ongoing problem solving, understanding that it needs to be a team, data to keep you connected and focused. We’re finding that that’s at the core of ending homelessness, too. There will always be people having housing emergencies, but we can shrink it to a totally manageable number so that homelessness becomes rare, brief when it happens, and doesn’t recur.”