In the time-honored tradition of songwriters everywhere, Dick Holler was peddling his wares that day in September 1968, carrying a stack of 45’s of his latest composition, so new that he had only just listened to it himself, on WABB, the principal Top-40 station in Mobile, Ala. The performer on the record was Dion, better known for pop standards like “The Wanderer” and “Runaround Sue” than for anything political. The song was called “Abraham, Martin and John.” A grieving Mr. Holler had dashed it off three months earlier, in the hours between the time Senator Robert F. Kennedy was shot early on the morning of June 5 and the time he died a day later. But playing it for the station’s program director, he was horrified by what he heard. Influenced by Bob Dylan, he thought, Dion had mumbled the lyrics, unthinkable for a “message” song linking the murders of Abraham Lincoln, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the two Kennedys. “This is a great track, man, but you can’t understand the lyrics!” he told Phil Gernhard, who had produced the record. Too late for a retake, Mr. Gernhard replied: The record was already being played and seemed poised to make the charts. In fact, its lyrics were almost secondary. So deep was the pain from three devastating assassinations in five years that America craved some music to mourn by. “Abraham, Martin and John” was less song than balm. (Though Robert Kennedy isn’t mentioned in the title, he gets equal billing in the song: Mr. Holler devoted the final stanza to him, ending the song by describing him ‘walking over the hill’ with the other three men.) Boosted by Dion’s appearance a month later on “The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour,” sales of the record really took off. Sometimes there are “perfect records in this world,” Dion (full name: Dion DiMucci) told me, and this one was “miraculous,” propping him up and keeping him on his feet after a long bout with drug addiction as well as giving him another hit. “What a song — come out of heaven or something,” he said. In the years since, an astonishing array of artists — including Ray Charles, Andy Williams, Marvin Gaye, Kenny Rogers, Whitney Houston, Eartha Kitt, Jerry Vale, Smokey Robinson and the Miracles, the Brothers Four, Mahalia Jackson and Moms Mabley — have either performed or recorded “Abraham, Martin and John.” One was Bob Dylan. When in a duet with the gospel singer Clydie King he sang, “Has anybody here seen my old friend Bobby? Can you tell me where he’s gone?” during his “born again” phase of the late 1970s and early 1980s, critics groused that he could have been referring to himself. In London a month later, fans assumed the “old friend John” for whom he also looked wasn’t Kennedy but Lennon, gunned down only eight months earlier. For Harry Belafonte, who also performed the song on occasion, singing the song was unusually personal: He knew three of the four men. Mr. Holler, whose only other hits in the United States were the various “Snoopy and the Red Baron” records in the 1960s, estimates that 25 million recordings of the song have been sold. Admiring and interdependent but ever wary of each other, Robert Kennedy and Martin Luther King had never been close. But in the song, two people who had rarely been in the same room together are forever walking together over a hill. Mr. Holler was a native of Indianapolis who grew up near where Robert Kennedy gave his famous eulogy of Dr. King only hours after he had been killed. While still in high school, he moved with his family to Baton Rouge in 1951 and was horrified by the segregated world he encountered. He’d gravitated to music, as a performer, writer and band leader, managing despite the straitjacket of Jim Crow to absorb the black musical traditions he so admired. When Bobby Kennedy was shot in Los Angeles just after winning California’s Democratic primary for president, Mr. Holler was in New York working on an album for the Royal Guardsmen, singers of the various Snoopy songs. According to Mr. Holler, he and Mr. Gernhard immediately canceled their recording sessions and returned to St. Petersburg, Fla., where Mr. Gernhard was based: It would, they figured, get their minds off what had just happened. Instead, in the music room at the rear of Mr. Gernhard’s office, Mr. Holler sketched out a simple verse about Lincoln: Has anybody here seen my old friend Abraham?/Can you tell me where he’s gone?/He freed a lot of people, but it seems the good die young/But I just looked around and he’s gone. He then said the same thing about Dr. King and the Kennedys. Dr. King, too, had “freed a lot of people.” In John Kennedy’s case it was more of a stretch, but at least he had proposed landmark civil rights legislation. And during his short-lived presidential run, Robert Kennedy had freed millions of people to march on the political establishment. “I don’t believe in God,” said Mr. Holler, now 83 years old, “but the whole song was done in 10 minutes.” For the vocals, Mr. Holler and Mr. Gernhard first turned to the Royal Guardsmen’s lead singer, Barry Winslow. Mr. Winslow told the music journalist Bill DeYoung, author of “Phil Gernhard: Record Man,” that he loved the song and was eager to record it. Not so, said Mr. Holler, who told me Mr. Winslow balked at singing anything extolling Martin Luther King Jr. “When someone in the Deep South makes a statement like that, you understand perfectly well what they mean,” he recalled. The owners of Mr. Holler’s label, Gene and Robert Schwartz of Laurie Records, then suggested Dion. Mr. Holler and Mr. Gernhard headed to the coffee house in Hialeah where he was performing. “We had to make sure he wasn’t still a raving junkie,” Mr. Holler remembered. In fact, Dion had just gone clean. And his voice was intact. But Dion hesitated: It wasn’t the kind of pop standard he favored, and he worried it might be considered opportunistic. “I thought, ‘Are they trying to cash in on the death of Bobby Kennedy?’” he recalled. He also found its original tempo “rinky-dink” and “sing-songy.” But listening to Mr. Holler’s acetate recording of the song in their kitchen in Miami, his wife and mother-in-law changed his mind. “That sounds like the gospel,” his mother-in-law said. The Bronx-born Dion played around with the song on his guitar, slowing it down. Then he passed it off to the arranger John Abbott (“Walk Away Renée”), who added harps, horns and even a sitar. Dion says he embraced the message, as he saw it: how love could somehow make sense of senseless violence. Though now a registered Republican (“I know New Yorkers hate Trump,” he said. “I look at the good things he’s doing”), he had always loved the Kennedys and admired Dr. King even more. “God really got his hands on somebody when he got him, you know?” he told me. In 2000, Mr. Gernhard told the San Francisco-based journalist Bob Frost that it was only with the “Smothers Brothers” appearance that Dion actually comprehended what, and whom, the song concerned. “At the hotel he suddenly turns to me and he says, ‘I didn’t know it was about those guys,’” Mr. Gernhard said. “Ludicrous,” Dion later said in response. “I thought that song inside and out before I did it.” (Mr. Gernhard committed suicide in 2008.) In some interviews, Dion seemed to suggest partial authorship of “Abraham, Martin and John.” “That song was a culmination of five quiet years, written with a friend in 20 minutes of absolute frustration,” he told The Boston Globe in 1976. Such claims upset Mr. Holler, who nonetheless acknowledges how substantially Dion improved his original composition. The two men haven’t spoken for decades. Dion expressed surprise that none of the Kennedys had ever thanked him for singing the song. Part of what Mr. Holler, who now lives in Berkeley, Calif., does these days is monitor and police the use of “Abraham, Martin and John.” He permitted Wilson Pickett to produce a parody (saluting Nat King Cole, Otis Redding and Sam Cooke), but his lawyers told him he could not sue Rush Limbaugh over a rendition built around Bill Clinton’s purported paramours. Nor could he do anything about David Mamet’s screenplay for the HBO movie “Phil Spector.” In it, Mr. Spector, played by Al Pacino, grouses that neither Kennedy deserved the praise the song heaps on them and that the song itself was a conspiracy: “If you look at the dates, ‘Abraham, Martin and John’ was recorded June 2, 1968 — that’s three days before they shot Bobby,” he complains, inaccurately. “They went back, chucked him in — as garnish.” Edward Kennedy’s first wife, Joan Kennedy, once said the song was one of her favorites. But Mr. Holler, too, has never heard from the Kennedys — not that he’d have had much more to say. “The song pretty much states how I feel about all of them,” he told me. “I am proud of ‘Abraham, Martin and John.’ But I’m dismayed that I ever had the chance to write it.”