BEREA, Ky. — I always said I’d marry only if I was able to do it in my home state. Not only because Kentucky is where I pay taxes just like straight people do, but also because this place is in my blood and bones. The voting habits of the Commonwealth frustrate me, but its hills, pastures and people made me. My wish came true in the summer of 2015 when the Supreme Court legalized marriage equality. A couple of days later, my partner and I strolled into our county clerk’s office. When we asked for a marriage license one of the women behind the counter made sure we felt welcome, but two others fled. Just over an hour away from us, a clerk named Kim Davis was refusing to issue marriage licenses to gay couples, and a media circus was erupting. When it came time to pick out flowers and a cake, we approached a florist and bakery with some trepidation, mostly because of what we had heard about the Masterpiece Cakeshop case, in which a Colorado baker had refused to sell a cake to a gay couple. However, we found business owners who were eager to help us. Leaving the bakery that day, I thought about how humiliating it would have been to be turned away because of who we were. It would have been especially troubling if the refusal been made in the name of God. A question many Americans have been asking ourselves since the presidential election widened the great divide in our country is, how do we get along with other people when our definitions of being a good person are in direct opposition? This is certainly something that L.G.B.T. people have been asking themselves far longer. I’ve been wondering about it since I first knew I was gay, around the age of 12. I had my daily reminder of that when the decision came down from the Supreme Court on Monday that Colorado wrongly punished the baker for refusing service to the gay couple who only wanted a cake. The decision will have little bearing on other cases, since it is specific to the Colorado case. It may, however, encourage more of the legalized discrimination that hurts gay people every day in our country, one that is increasingly led by religious fundamentalists. I was raised in an evangelical church and know Christian fundamentalism well. My entire upbringing and the larger culture taught me that gay people were not worthy of God’s love. Homophobia abounds in most major religions, but in our country, fundamentalist Christians have certainly cornered the market when it comes to putting forth legislation to hem in L.G.B.T. people. The Masterpiece case is perhaps the most famous example, but it’s one of many. Most states have legalized discrimination on the books against L.G.B.T. people. In 28 states, including my own, people can be fired simply for being gay or transgender. Just last month in Kentucky, two people were fired because one of them was wearing a T-shirt to raise awareness about violence against L.G.B.T. people. The other was fired because she defended him. The co-owners said the worker had to be let go because his shirt made them “uncomfortable.” In 38 states I can legally be refused a rental property for being gay. Federal fair housing laws protect people from discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, national origin, disability and familial status, but not on orientation. Last summer the Justice Department argued that a major federal civil rights law does not protect employees from discrimination based on their orientation, either. Its brief came the same day President Trump tweeted that transgender people would be barred from the military. In Kentucky, our governor, a close friend of Ms. Davis, last year signed a law that allows religious groups at public schools to bar L.G.B.T. students. Recently, a family court judge here resigned rather than handle   adoptions by gay couples. And across the country pending lawsuits involve doctors, photographers, child placement workers and others who don’t want to provide services for L.G.B.T. people. All of these cases cite religious beliefs. In all cases, L.G.B.T. folks are the suspect class. People like the Colorado baker, Jack Phillips, seem to think they are the only ones who have ownership over God and belief, and certainly over Christianity. Thankfully, not all those who share his faith agree with his position. But the Supreme Court decision will fuel the fires of this particular battle in the culture wars. People like Mr. Phillips believe their religious liberty trumps everyone else’s, and surely it overrules my own since I am a gay man. The inability to get along because of fundamental differences in defining what makes us good people is one of the chief reasons for discrimination, slaughter and genocide. As the governor of Indiana, Mike Pence attributed the failure of his proposed Religious Freedom Restoration Act to intolerance toward evangelicals. Yet a quick glance at Christian-backed legislation is enough to reveal who the intolerant ones are. Mr. Pence’s desire to discriminate while cloaked in his religion made him an evangelical hero, holding the second-highest office in the land. Ever since I was a teenager, I’ve felt like a Christian being persecuted by other Christians. The endless hate crimes (last month two men in Denver were stabbed because they were holding hands), the constant introduction of anti-gay “religious freedom” legislation, the eternal discussion about personal rights versus freedom of speech — it all just makes me weary to the bone. I’m made wearier because religion is being used as a shield. But the day of our wedding, my husband and I were untouchable. We weren’t able to have our official ceremony in our Episcopal church because we didn’t want to wait the three weeks it took for the banns to be published; we were too afraid the right would somehow be snatched from us. We were married by a judge five days after the Supreme Court gave us that right. We celebrated that evening with a pistachio cake, the most delicious thing I’ve ever tasted. But before that, we gathered in a chapel with an Episcopal priest and a handful of family members. Within the blue glow of stained glass, we bowed our heads, crossed ourselves and took the Holy Eucharist together. I didn’t care about the legislation or discrimination that lay ahead. For me, in that moment, I had finally found total acceptance.