Gail Collins: Bret, I’m on book leave until August, but I didn’t really want to spend two months devoid of conversation. So I’m going to keep dropping in unless President Trump agrees to go away for the summer, too. I wonder if he’d send me a pardon if I failed to meet my deadline. Seems to work for everybody else. Give me your predictions of who else you think will get a presidential get-out-of-jail card. Bret Stephens: We’re going to miss you this summer, Gail, so I’m glad we still get our periodic chats. The pardon power, historically, is supposed to be an instrument of individual mercy — like Lincoln’s many pardons of Union soldiers with “cowardly legs” — and a means of political reconciliation, like Ford’s controversial-but-wise pardon of Nixon. I’m not sure exactly when it became an instrument of personal or political self-dealing, though Bill Clinton’s disgraceful pardon of Marc Rich just as he was leaving office in 2001 comes to mind. Gail: You know, I’ve come to agree about the Nixon pardon, although I certainly hated it at the time. Being forced to quit the presidency in shame isn’t the same as going to jail, but it wasn’t exactly as if Nixon was getting away with it. And there was a lot to be said for letting the country move on. The Marc Rich pardon was appalling, but at least nobody worried about Clinton making a career out of that sort of thing. Bret:  Trump, as usual, takes self-dealing to a whole new level. The pardon for Dinesh D’Souza, like the previous pardon of Sheriff Joe Arpaio in Arizona, seems to be purely a function of them being Trumpian lickspittles. A pardon for Rod Blagojevich, the impeached and imprisoned former governor of Illinois, would be a way of setting a precedent for, well, himself, in the event of his own downfall. And, of course, all this is a none-too-subtle way of sending a signal to Michael Cohen, Paul Manafort and others that they, too, can expect to get a presidential get-out-jail-free card if they refuse to cooperate with Robert Mueller’s investigation. In short, it is the kind of politicization of the pardon power that you might expect in, say, present-day Caracas, now coming to you from the White House. Gail: As usual with our commander in chief, it’s hard to tell what is just lack of impulse control and what’s an actual plot. If nothing else, Donald Jr. must be sleeping sounder. So let me bring up something we might actually be able to disagree about. The economy. What do you think? Is this the gift of the tax cuts? A warning that because of the tax cuts, the whole thing could implode again like it did in 2008? I think it’s mainly a natural progression of the Obama recovery and I’m just hoping that the tax cuts will not screw it up. Pretty sure they aren’t really helping. Bret: My Saturday column compared Trump, unfavorably, to Herbert Hoover. I was talking specifically about protectionism and the economic and diplomatic destructiveness of the administration’s latest round of steel and aluminum tariffs. Gail: That was great and demonstrates once again that the one person in the universe who can bring us together on every subject is D.J.T. Bret: Yet the truth remains that unemployment is plumbing lows not seen since the peak of the tech boom in 2000. And analysts expect second-quarter growth figures to come in strong. Given that we are 18 months into the Trump administration, and nearly six months past the tax cut, it’s becoming a little strained to attribute all the good news to the Obama administration. So why not just acknowledge that much of what Trump has done has been good for the economy? The reach of the regulatory state had grown too far under Obama, a fact that coastal liberals stubbornly refused to see (a blind spot, by the way, which helped elect Trump). The ease of doing business in the United States as measured by the World Bank had declined, too. Corporate taxes were way too high and bringing them down was a smart thing to do — something Obama himself had once acknowledged, although he differed from Republicans on the specifics. As you will have noticed, Trump’s poll numbers have been climbing higher, and the chances of Democrats taking Congress have diminished accordingly. I’m afraid Democrats aren’t helping themselves by screaming themselves hoarse at everything Trump does. What am I missing? Gail: If we had a normal Republican president, we could be having a nice civilized argument about the regulatory state because we wouldn’t be distracted by, you know, pardons and collusion and cabinet members who are, miraculously, both corrupt and dimwitted. It is true that less regulation is often good for business. Bret: The angels are singing in heaven, Gail. Go on. Gail: In a normal administration, we could argue about weighing the cost of business efficiency with the public good regulations accomplish. “Screw global warming” will mean bigger profits over the short run, but in the long term it’s global disaster. And even in the short term, we’re going to lose half the Florida coast. A lot of the Trump pro-business agenda isn’t about efficiency so much as favoring big donors. Almost nobody thinks freezing the fuel standards is going to be good for us. Neither is strong-arming big energy consumers into using loser coal companies and deteriorating nuclear power plants. Wow, I’m getting roused up here. Let’s talk about something more relaxing. Any post-Roseanne-Barr thoughts? Bret: I think we’ve got to do better at making some common-sense distinctions between Barr-level offenses, for which she was rightly fired, and lesser sins. Take Samantha Bee. I think what she said about Ivanka Trump was deplorable, to coin a phrase. But there’s a difference between Barr’s hate speech, which was an unprompted and unforgivable racial slur, and Bee’s speech, which was a vulgar expression of outrage against an outrageous immigration policy that separates mothers from children. Or am I missing something here? Gail: No, I think you’ve got it down fine. And unlike so very many of the conflicts the country has been having, this one might be of some use. In our wired-up world we’re going to have a lot of instances of celebrities screeching awful things to get attention. The rest of the country has to figure out how to separate the vulgar from the unacceptable. Just because they’re famous doesn’t mean they get a pass. Or a pardon, to go back to our previous discussion. By the way, I know it’s early in the pardon parade to make any judgments, but chats with Kim Kardashian aside, it’s interesting that while Trump has forgiven the sins of several well-known bigots, the only black person he’s done any favors for has been dead for more than 70 years. Bret: Can’t be a surprise, can it? Wasn’t it telling that the one person who got no sympathy from Trump following Barr’s tweet was the target of that tweet, Valerie Jarrett? Irrespective of any political differences, why couldn’t the White House extend her the courtesy of some normal human sympathy? I often think the word “racist” is badly overused in American discourse, but the pattern by this president — birtherism, alt-right sympathy, Charlottesville — is unignorable. And since we keep circling back to pardons, what do you make of Trump’s new legal theory that he has a right to pardon himself? Pardon my French, but I think that’s %#*¥&!. Gail: Rudy Giuliani says he does have the right, but that if he used it Congress would impeach him. Trump says he has the right, but he won’t need to use it because he’s as innocent as an angel. Since the men and women of Congress are planning to spend a lot of the summer in Washington — in an attempt to show that they’re actually doing something — perhaps they’d have time to pass a resolution just saying that no president has that right, period. They could quote legal experts or just announce that it’s totally nuts. In the opinion of the House and Senate. Think there’s any chance? Bret: In this Congress? Dream on. That’ll have to await a change in leadership, and I don’t just mean Republicans replacing themselves. I just hope the party of the “resistance” has the good sense to conduct itself as a smart opposition party and run candidates who can win. Do you think Democrats did this with their primaries? Gail: Well, there really haven’t been very many. I suspect you’re asking about the House races where the Democratic organization-backed moderate lost to a more progressive candidate. I don’t really believe voters are going to run in terror away from somebody who’s talking about Medicare for all. In fact, I think Medicare for all is a damned good idea. So color me unconcerned. Bret: Medicare for all? Egads! Here is where we definitely differ. I think that’s the way to blow a giant hole in American medicine as well as the federal fisc. But it’s certainly worth a big political fight. The Democratic tilt toward progressives may be an interesting way of testing the proposition that the party does best when it runs left-wing candidates who can appeal more powerfully to their base than they do to more purple parts of their constituencies. We’ll see, but I’m skeptical. If Democrats fail to take either house of Congress this November, that’ll be the reason. The silver lining might be that a defeat in the midterms will teach Democrats to revert to their moderate instincts. Alternatively, a big Republican defeat might chasten conservatives about the wisdom of handing their party over to Trump. Either way, something to hope for — and something to fear.