Whatever the outcome of Tuesday’s crowded congressional and statewide contests in California, the results are unlikely to heal a longstanding national schism: Political parties in the Golden State have never played the same role as their counterparts in the East. California has a proud tradition of independent voters and weak, often irrelevant political parties. The parties do not (with rare exceptions) run machines, anoint candidates, produce strong leaders, turn out big votes or elicit great loyalty. Instead of gnashing teeth over the uncontrollable “jungle primary,” national pundits might do better to understand the fundamental reality of politics in California. The state’s current system, where the top two finishers in the June election advance to a runoff regardless of party, is anathema to those who presume the November ballot should have a Democrat-Republican face-off. Yet that has actually not been the case for a large chunk of California’s statehood. Between 1914 and 1959, Democrats and Republicans “cross-filed” and ran in each other’s primaries. For most of that time, ballots did not even indicate party affiliation. State parties could not endorse candidates until after the primary. By then, incumbents had often won both primaries and ran in November unopposed. The political landscape of the early 1950s may sound eerily familiar: One party had a virtual lock on statewide offices. Cross-filing helped the dominant party easily maintain control. The minority party became so dispirited that a liberal wing formed an alternate organization in an effort to rejuvenate the party. Of course, the labels were reversed. Republicans ruled the state then. Gov. Earl Warren won both party primaries in 1946 and then was easily re-elected to a third term four years later. The Democrat Pat Brown won a close contest for attorney general in 1950, thanks to a last-minute contribution from a Republican, Norton Simon, that funded billboards called “Our Choice,” pairing Brown’s face with Warren. (The popular governor had not endorsed his friend, but did not object to the implication.) In 1952, Republican United States Senator William Knowland won both party primaries; no Democrat appeared on the November ballot. The wipeout that year prompted a group of liberals to form the California Democratic Council, which over the next decade helped rebuild through grass-roots clubs, outside the regular party organization. The historic weakness of political parties in California stems from a combination of demographic, economic and political trends that harken back to the state’s rapid growth after the discovery of gold in 1848. “In California, the lights went on all at once, in a blaze, and they never have dimmed,” the historian Carey McWilliams famously wrote, describing the energy generated by successive waves of astounding growth. During the 1950s, California drew so many people the state needed to add the equivalent of one high school a week. Neighborhoods filled with newcomers made building local political organizations difficult. Democrats and Republicans arrived from around the country with little shared ideology and different ideas about their party’s values. Cross-filing was one of a series of measures adopted during the Progressive Era to curb the power of the railroad barons and thwart any East Coast-style political machines. Gov. Hiram Johnson’s direct democracy agenda of the 1910s also brought California the initiative and referendum, enabling voters to make laws, repeal laws or amend the constitution at the ballot box. And with enough signatures, voters can attempt to recall elected officials for any reason, even governors. When Gov. Gray Davis was recalled in 2003, 135 candidates appeared on the ballot to replace him. The sheer size and diversity of California weaken political ties, too. With nearly 10 million people, Los Angeles County alone is more populous than 41 states. Geographic interests often outweigh party loyalty. Even stalwarts defy pigeonholing: Republican Gov. Ronald Reagan protected scenic rivers and wilderness and signed the state’s Environmental Quality Act. Even amid today’s heated, partisan rhetoric, the parties seem largely irrelevant. For example: · Senator Dianne Feinstein failed to win endorsement at the state Democratic convention in February. But by all indications, she leads her challengers by double-digit margins. · Arnold Schwarzenegger, the last Republican elected to statewide office, in 2006, denounced his own party and its support of President Trump. The ex-governor has spearheaded a dissident group of moderate Republicans, “New Way California.” · Voters registered with no party preference are now a quarter of the electorate, double the percentage two decades ago. The so-called “decline to state” voters — who register to vote without choosing a party affiliation — for the first time outnumber Republicans, according to figures released last week. Even California’s most prominent, senior Democrat, Jerry Brown, spent six years in the late 1990s and early 2000s as a “decline to state” after he had a few years earlier chaired the state Democratic Party. When he cites great governors of the past, Mr. Brown names his father, Hiram Johnson and Earl Warren, men who worked across party lines. Despite its reputation as a deep blue state, California has elected only four Democrats as governor in modern times; one was recalled, and two were named Brown. After his breakthrough victory in 1958, Pat Brown was at a San Francisco dinner party with his friend Tom Lynch and Connecticut Gov. Abe Ribicoff, both early supporters and friends of John F. Kennedy. Probing the local political landscape with an eye to the 1960 presidential campaign, Ribicoff turned to Brown and asked, who had decided he should run for governor? Years later, Lynch recalled Brown’s bafflement. “Pat gave the only answer he could give,” Lynch said. “He said, ‘I did.’”