After years of struggling with the politics of Obamacare, Democrats now view health care as a winning issue. A candidate in Orange County, California, has a chance of winning a primary on Tuesday while running on explicit support for Medicare for All. Single-payer-friendly Democratic candidates are not just running in deep-blue states; they are campaigning in places like New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Illinois as well as Nebraska and Texas. Across the country, Democrats are making health care a top messaging and policy priority, with some red state Democrats running on Obamacare for the first time. This is partly an attempt to blame Republicans for the failings of Obamacare. A Congressional Budget Office report from May projected a 15 percent premium increase for a typical plan under Obamacare, in part because last year’s tax law eliminated the individual mandate as of 2019. That effort is intertwined with a related push to advance single payer as a cure for what ails the Affordable Care Act. Polls show rising support for single payer, and a number of high-profile 2020 hopefuls have endorsed the idea. When Bernie Sanders released his single-payer Medicare for All plan, his campaign pollster declared that within the party, support for single payer was “fast-emerging as a litmus test.” Democrats believe they have the advantage on health care policy and are poised to press that advantage in the coming elections. There is some truth to this story. Democrats have a clearer sense of broadly shared health goals than their Republican opponents. Yet that optimism also obscures practical and political challenges Democrats are likely to face, some of which oddly resemble the obstacles that Republicans failed to overcome with their repeal push last year. If Democrats turn the next two elections into a push for single payer, or something closer to it, they may be setting themselves up for failure. Polling emphasizes the instability of public opinion when it comes to single payer: Although support for single payer has risen in recent years, a Kaiser Family Foundation survey last year found that positive opinions on the issue were easily flipped when respondents heard that single payer would increase government control over health care or require many Americans to pay more in taxes. Furthermore, as a recent BuzzFeed News report found, many voters in swing states have a fuzzier understanding of what Medicare for All actually means. They see it as a generalized reference to increased government support for health care. But any push to enact an actual Medicare for All plan is bound to struggle when voters don’t have a firm sense of what it is. Attempts to set up single-payer systems at the state level have run into precisely this problem. Even in blue states like California, Colorado and Vermont, voters and lawmakers have consistently rejected or abandoned single payer on the grounds that it would cost too much or be too disruptive. Liberal policy experts, at least, are not unaware of these difficulties, and policy proposals like the recent Medicare Extra plan from the Center for American Progress represent attempts to capitalize on the surge of interest in single payer while addressing some of the potential practical challenges of dramatically expanding government provision of care. Yet even those seemingly supportive proposals can also be understood as attempts to pre-empt the stronger forms of single payer that have failed so disastrously at the state level. States face budget constraints and other limitations that the federal government does not, but the federal cost would still be extraordinarily high. And the politics of single payer at the national level would hardly be easier. Red-state voters would wield more influence, and the election of Donald Trump appears to have made some voters who might otherwise be supportive of single-payer-style systems newly wary of handing over more power to the federal government. Democrats hoping to move in the direction of single payer have plenty of hurdles to jump, and it’s not evident how, or whether, many of them can be cleared. But base enthusiasm and the appearance of broader public support combined with a Trump-era desire for boldness means the party is moving ahead anyway. And in that sense, the Democrats appear to be following in the footsteps of their political opponents. The Medicare for All push is not precisely analogous to the Republican effort to take down Obamacare, but it’s not too hard to see the parallels. The Republican effort was also driven by a popular slogan (“Repeal and replace”) whose appeal rested in part on the vagueness of its meaning. That vagueness allowed the base to understand it one way without scaring off moderates, while making it difficult for opponents to poke holes in a plan that didn’t exist. Republican wonks offered a variety of plans with varying degrees of specificity, but the party never rallied around any one of those plans or made an effort to sell the details to the public, which balked at losing a part of the system that was already in place. As a result, when Republicans finally had a chance to act, they had neither the policy particulars nor the political support lined up. They failed, and now they are paying a price politically. In some ways, then, it’s useful to see the two parties as negative images of each other, with inverse problems: If Republicans typically appear to be winging it on health care, with the average elected official’s understanding limited to empty talking points, Democrats sometimes come across as overly ambitious, like real-estate developers eagerly showing off concept art for structures they haven’t figured out how to build. The deeper problem for both parties is that when it comes to health care, there is no real consensus, no shared vision of a way forward, no willingness to accept or even discuss the available trade-offs. Instead, the politics of American health care are dominated by contradictory impulses — that American health policy should provide more access and lower costs, be easier to understand and offer a wider array of choices, make better use of market forces and come with a greater level of government guarantee, preserve the status quo and enact radical change. For good and for ill, Obamacare embodied those contradictions. And that’s why the Democratic push to move beyond it is likely to struggle just as much as the Republican effort to take it down.