This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. There has been rising anxiety among Democrats in recent weeks — and rising optimism among Republicans — about the midterm elections in November. Last night’s primaries in several states should cause everyone to take a deep breath. The Democrats had a good night: • We still don’t have the full picture, but the trends in voter turnout continue to look strong for Democrats. (The partisan breakdown in primary turnout is a meaningful predictor of general-election results.) In three New Jersey House districts that Democrats are hoping to flip, for example, Democrats cast between 52 percent and 54 percent of primary votes last night. “Should be careful about reading too much into it,” G. Elliott Morris of The Economist said on Twitter, “but those numbers should make Democrats feel good about November.” Democratic turnout was also strong in Iowa. And as analysts dig into the California results today, I’ll be watching for what they find out about turnout. Nate Cohn of The Times has a good explainer of California’s importance here. • Democrats appear to have avoided a disaster scenario in California. They were not locked out of the general election in any congressional district, based on the latest vote counts. The lockout scenario was possible because California has moved to a “top two” primary system. It no longer has party primaries; all candidates instead run in a single primary. In some districts, so many Democrats were running that it seemed possible that Republicans could finish in the top two spots, even if both received only around 20 percent of the vote. The results won’t be finalized for another two weeks, as Amy Walter of the Cook Political Report notes. But the initial results suggest Democrats will have a general-election candidate in every district. The main headline on Politico earlier this morning: “Democrats dodge California lockouts.” • Democrats continue to win some shocking upsets. “The Dems just flipped another seat in Missouri, a State Senate District Trump won in 2016 by 5%, the Dem tonight won by 20%,” Matthew Dowd, the ABC News analyst and former George W. Bush aide, said on Twitter. “For all those saying blue wave was dwindling, this is evidence to contrary.” There is a long way to go, and the race for Congress remains a tossup. But last night was a net positive for the Democrats’ chances. Bill Clinton and MeToo. President Bill Clinton’s heated, self-justifying response to a question about Monica Lewinsky is astonishing given how much his misconduct with her shaped the #MeToo movement, argues New York magazine’s Rebecca Traister. His deflections, which continued in an interview with The Times last night, also mirror President Trump’s when confronted with his own accusations of sexual misconduct. “At an honor-starved moment when most of our politicians are quicker to shirk responsibility than to shoulder it, I cringe at his evasions, elisions and rationalizations,” writes my colleague Frank Bruni. The full Opinion report from The Times follows, including Bari Weiss on Miss America.