The most talented and subtle politician in the country showed this week, once again, that he has L.G.B.T. Americans’ back. Justice Anthony Kennedy led a seven-member Supreme Court majority in a decision that superficially looks like a defeat for gay and lesbian people — but is, in reality, one more rung quietly added to the rising ladder of equality. For years, legal scholars and some of his fellow jurists have disparaged Justice Kennedy’s opinions as muddled and vague. But the justice, to their frustration, has proved to be a brilliant politician, possessed of a seemingly infallible feel for how to nudge the court and public opinion in his direction. In that respect, gay rights may be his most enduring legacy. In one case after another, he advanced the cause of gay and lesbian equality, beginning in 1996 and culminating in the 2015 majority decision he wrote legalizing same-sex marriage. In the Masterpiece Cakeshop opinion on Monday, Justice Kennedy has shown his skill again, giving the religious side a tactical win while inconspicuously providing the gay side with a strategic victory. In 2012, Masterpiece Cakeshop, a bakery in Colorado, refused to create a wedding cake for a gay couple. The bakery’s Christian owner-operator, Jack Phillips, contended that although he was willing to serve L.G.B.T. individuals, creating the cake would amount to participating in a same-sex wedding, a violation of his religious principles and free-speech rights. The couple alleged that Mr. Phillips had violated state anti-discrimination law, and the Colorado Civil Rights Commission agreed. Mr. Phillips sued. In its decision, the Supreme Court sided with the baker. Religious-liberty advocates celebrated, and many on the L.G.B.T. side lamented. On balance, though, we believe it is the gay and lesbian side that has considerably more reason to be pleased. As commentators on both sides noted, the court’s decision was very narrowly written. That in itself was a defeat for the baker and his supporters, because they had asked for a very broad ruling: that an expansively defined constitutional right to free speech trumps any nondiscrimination statute. Had the court plumped for such a maximalist theory, it would have imperiled anti-discrimination statutes — and many other statutes — across the land, while setting off a cascade of angels-on-pinheads litigation about how far free-speech protections extend into everyday commercial activities. (Is designing a bridal dress for a same-sex wedding protected speech? How about sewing one? Or dry-cleaning one?) Instead, the court found fault with the particular way in which the Colorado authorities had reached their conclusion. Yes, said the court, the civil rights commission violated the baker’s rights — not by regulating the bakery, however, but by displaying animus and behaving inconsistently in applying the rules. Thus no new law was made, no new precedent set. But Justice Kennedy’s opinion interprets existing precedent to set a high bar for those who would allow discrimination in the name of the First Amendment. According to the decision: “Our society has come to the recognition that gay persons and gay couples cannot be treated as social outcasts or as inferior in dignity and worth. For that reason the laws and the Constitution can, and in some instances must, protect them in the exercise of their civil rights.” The decision clearly states that it is a general rule that religious and philosophical objections “do not allow business owners and other actors in the economy and in society to deny protected persons equal access to goods and services.” Perhaps most important, it equates the government’s interest in protecting “gay persons” with the state interest in protecting other groups, such as racial minorities: “It is unexceptional that Colorado law can protect gay persons, just as it can protect other classes of individuals.” This is extremely important because the court has made clear that the government interest in protecting racial minorities is “compelling,” but it has never held that with regard to protecting sexual minorities. Only two justices dissented — and they were both liberals who thought the gay couple should have prevailed. True, religious conservatives will try again to obtain a First Amendment right to withhold commercial services from same-sex weddings (and from other practices to which they object). More conflicts, and more cases, are in the pipeline. But Masterpiece’s majority put religious objectors on notice that the relief they seek had better not look, sound or smell like anti-gay discrimination. And the decision reaffirms the court’s landmark 1990 decision (written by Justice Antonin Scalia) holding that religious objections do not override valid and neutral laws. Meanwhile, by ducking a broad, one-size-fits-all constitutional holding, the court effectively requires both sides, in Colorado and elsewhere, to go home and try to work out policy accommodations at the state and local levels. That is just as well. The country is still working its way toward consensus on how to balance competing claims of religious conscience and secular law, and legally speaking, there is no single right answer. As Utah showed in its highly regarded 2015 compromise, if negotiators want a solution more than they want an issue, they can strike political bargains that increase protections for sexual minorities and for religious objectors. Making such deals is never easy, but a sweeping constitutional judgment would foreclose the space for them. On the controversial, complex issue of gay rights and religious rights, almost any broad constitutional judgment the Supreme Court might reach would be greeted as either gutting anti-discrimination laws (and not just for gay people) or as gutting the First Amendment. Or, possibly, as gutting both. By ruling narrowly in Masterpiece Bakeshop, the Supreme Court declined an invitation to set off political dynamite. And by reaffirming its hostility to anti-gay discrimination (while also speaking emphatically against anti-religious animus), the court has shored up Justice Kennedy’s legacy.