What do the primary results from California, New Jersey and places in between bode for November? For the Times opinion columnists Frank Bruni and Ross Douthat, they mean plenty — and yet nothing definitive. Their discussion follows: Frank Bruni: Ross, although Americans less politically engaged than you and I probably wondered at that potent breeze, accompanied by a happy whistling sound, that emanated from California and blew eastward all the way to the Potomac, we recognized it instantly for what it was: an epic Democratic sigh of relief. Based on incomplete returns from the Tuesday primaries there, the party’s hopes for retaking control of the House after November are alive! Its candidates in the California districts that it’s striving to flip from red to blue did not get shut out of the general election by the state’s “top two” system, in which two Republicans could have been graduated to the next, decisive phase. Ross Douthat: True, the Democrats avoided calamity, and election handicappers gained, well, more ambiguity, it appears. Our colleague Nate Cohn spent Tuesday explaining that if the Democrats closed in on 50 percent of the vote in California’s key primaries — the districts held by Republican representatives and won by Hillary Clinton in 2016 — they would be on the pace they need to have a House-taking wave; if they consistently fell below 45 percent the wave would be receding. The provisional totals? 49, 37, 47, 44, 44, 46, 48. That looks like a gray zone to me, with the House very much in play, but the Democrats’ chances of taking it by no means as great as they would like. Bruni: This midterm election is refusing to hew to one clear pattern. Just a few weeks ago, in Omaha, a candidate of the left beat a more established Democrat in a fiercely contested primary, pretty much dooming the party in the general election, and there was ample talk of the main energy in the party being on the left. Tuesday’s results suggest otherwise, not just in California but in New Jersey, where the Democrats who won their primaries and will now compete in November are ones backed for the most part by the Democratic establishment — whatever that is. They’re well within the party’s mainstream. And of course Senator Dianne Feinstein prevailed handily in her California primary. So much for the Bernie Sanders insurgency. Douthat: I think generally there’s a lot more division between different Democratic factions on social media than there is in actual electoral politics. Our colleague David Leonhardt has written about how even in hard-fought primaries, like the one for governor in Georgia, the competing Democratic messages aren’t that far apart. And moderate incumbents like Feinstein and Montana’s Jon Tester won their primaries easily; indeed, it’s hard to think of a major Democratic incumbent who’s faced a sustained grass-roots challenge. Sure, Bob Menendez did surprisingly poorly in New Jersey — but he won, scandals and all. This is not a Democratic Party in the throes of its own Tea Party moment. It looks more unified, not less, than in 2016. Bruni: Agreed — for now! I say “for now” because I do feel this is a story still being written, and because if 2016 taught us anything, it’s that some of the old expectations and rules are out the window. I’d like to note something additional about Tuesday’s results. In California’s 39th District, the Democrat who graduated to the general election in November is Gil Cisneros. In New Jersey’s 11th District, the Democrat who moved on is Mikie Sherrill. Both Cisneros and Sherrill are military veterans running for the first time and spotlighted and backed by Massachusetts Representative Seth Moulton’s Serve America PAC. Douthat: Yes, Donald Trump has made candidate recruitment a lot easier for Democrats, and figures like Conor Lamb in Pennsylvania and Doug Jones in Alabama have helped them win close races. Bruni: At the start of this election cycle, there was a lot of talk about whether veterans were an answer to the party’s quest for candidates who could have a broad appeal in certain areas. As of now, 10 of these candidates — veterans running for the House for the first time — are bound for November general elections, including Amy McGrath, who staged that surprise victory in a Kentucky district a few weeks back. Conor Lamb belongs to this crowd of veterans, too. Douthat: At the same time, I’m a little skeptical that all this unity is exactly what the party needs. The Democrats’ problem, in a way, is that they’re too ideologically unified: They’re a party of consistent social and economic liberalism in a big and messy country, and as they’ve become more ideologically consistent they’ve lost power both in Washington and in state houses. Meanwhile, the Republican coalition sprawls across populist, libertarian and social conservative terrain; it’s less consistent and unified (and hard-pressed to come up with a governing agenda), but that very inconsistency can be a strength when it comes to winning battleground elections. It might not be the worst thing if the Democrats were having a few more tough center-versus-left battles; it might be a sign that they were experimenting ideologically after a series of defeats, rather than just doubling down and hoping the right candidates suffice to succeed where the party’s larger message has been failing. Bruni: I think it’d probably help a lot of confused readers if we pulled back from Tuesday’s contests and explained why there’s any suspense at all about whether Democrats can get the House majority. From a certain historical angle, it looks like a slam dunk. I read recently that since 1865, the party in power has lost, on average, 32 House seats in a midterm election; Democrats need to flip 23. They’re attempting to do so against the backdrop of a president with persistently low approval ratings. And yet it’s not a slam dunk. Before I theorize why, I want to hear your thoughts. Douthat: Well, part of it is certainly the gerrymandered advantage Republicans have from the last round of redistricting, which fell conveniently just after their own wave in 2010, and the fact that the Senate map is particularly favorable to them this year. But 2006 and 2010 both show that a wave of the scale the Democrats need is achievable if you’re running against a sufficiently unpopular president or agenda. The difficulty is that while Trump is unpopular, the steadily strengthening economy seems to be floating his approval ratings up into the zone he needs to hold the House, and while the Republican agenda is likewise unpopular, the party has wisely stopped (for now) trying to repeal Obamacare and shifted to small ball, leaving the Democrats without a clear target to attack. Bruni: In short: For Republicans, Trump is the Titanic, but the economy right now is a damned big lifeboat. I do think that the economy means that the Democratic wave may not be tidal and that Republicans could navigate around a mammoth iceberg, and with that I’ll quit the seafaring metaphors. I also think that more than the jobs numbers and stock market is coloring, or could color, the November outcome. Democrats are still struggling — and they are working diligently and earnestly on this — to encapsulate and communicate what they offer people in America who perhaps have jobs but do not have the security and standard of living they want and deserve. Douthat: For all of Trump’s vulnerabilities, there isn’t the equivalent of the Iraq war or the Obamacare debate or the post-2008 economic climate for the opposition to exploit. Which makes their task more challenging than it would be if some true Trump-abetted disaster were unfolding. Bruni: And Democrats need to be careful not to talk too much between now and November about Trump, Trump, Trump. Voters already know how they feel about Trump: In terms of media, he’s the most dominant president of my lifetime and probably of any lifetime past or near future. What voters haven’t necessarily decided is which party, and which congressional candidates, might be the sturdiest vessel of hope. Douthat: That was my take six months ago: I thought the Democrats could effectively let anti-Trump sentiment in their base drive turnout while they talked about policy to swing voters. If the e unemployment rate keeps hitting new lows, though, and the Republicans don’t go back to trying to push a wildly unpopular health care reform through Congress, I’m not sure that the economic message is enough. Keep in mind: Trump won in part because while voters like the Democrats’ policy proposals piece by piece, they prefer a vision of full employment to a new set of welfare-state programs — and “bringing back the jobs” was Trump’s big promise. And while he may not deserve much of the credit, there really are more jobs every day, so he can answer the Democrats on policy, for now, by just saying “promise kept.” And as long as that’s the case they need more voters than just the paid-up members of #TheResistance to cast a ballot based on what they dislike about Trump — and to me that means that attacks on Trumpian corruption in the White House and the cabinet is an essential part of their message for the fall. Again, barring some intervening disaster or Robert Mueller bombshell that would make their jobs easier again. Bruni: A few quibbles with that analysis: There’s a difference between jobs, as measured by the unemployment figures, and decent wages that allow people to recapture a past standard of living, maintain their current one or count on something better in the future. And the stock market benefits some but by no means all. So an appraisal of economic health is more complicated than the happy charts that one of the administration’s economists began Tuesday’s White House press briefing with — you know, the briefing at which Sarah Huckabee Sanders felt compelled to declaim: “I am an honest person.” When you have to say that, you’ve lost the game already. But I digress! Douthat: That digression is illustrative, though: It’s clearly easier to make a case against this administration on its mix of dishonesty, turpitude and chaos than it is to argue against a 3.8 percent unemployment rate. I agree with you that the economy isn’t as good as that number suggests — too many people are still out of the labor force, wages aren’t rising fast enough, and we have a whole lost decade-and-a-half of growth, with all the social costs that entails, that a few years of low unemployment won’t be enough to heal. But even so, the trend is very positive, Trump isn’t going to hesitate to claim credit, and the Democrats’ big ideas — a job guarantee, single payer, etc. — become harder to sell when people feel more secure in their jobs and happier with the economy overall. Bruni: Let’s pivot super quickly back to Tuesday’s results and then let our patient readers move on to other news, like Scott Pruitt’s latest grift. I want to note that Gavin Newsom’s first-place finish in California’s Democratic gubernatorial primary — which all but guarantees that he’s our most populous state’s next governor — makes him a national player on a major scale, ipso facto. That’s a developing story line worth watching. Douthat: My take on Newsom is that California will soon pine for the sensible elder statesmanship of Jerry Brown, and that the state as a whole — rich and beautiful but also stratified and balkanized, with its middle class priced out and homelessness and child poverty rampant — is a cautionary tale about the gap between liberal ideals and the possible real-life consequences of liberal governance. I’d welcome a Newsom for president campaign (after the Kamala Harris campaign, of course) to make that cautionary tale a subject for national debate. Bruni: Last I checked there were upward of three dozen Democrats potentially running for president in 2020, so I say we wait until the list has been winnowed before we dive too deeply into those waters. (There I go with the sloshy metaphors again.) It’s all I can do to stay afloat in 2018. Thanks for splashing around with me, Ross. Douthat: A pleasure, Frank. See you in the fall campaign.