According to Alan Krueger and Eric Posner, in their tough minded — and much-needed — “Proposal for Protecting Low-Income Workers From Monopsony and Collusion,” the ideal labor market is one in which “workers can move freely to seek the most desirable opportunities for which they are qualified.” If only. As Adam Cobb, a professor of management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, put it in an email conversation: Life doesn’t operate so cleanly and the fact that a worker’s wealth and well-being is much more dependent upon her employer than the employer is on a given worker tilts things in the employer’s favor. The trend in recent years has been an inexorable shift of bargaining power to employers at the expense of employees. The Supreme Court is expected to rule soon in the case of Janus v. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, Council 31, which challenges the right of public employee unions in 22 states to collect dues from nonmembers who benefit from a union agreement that covers the cost of collective bargaining and contract compliance. If the court rules against organized labor as expected, it will inflict punishing financial hardship on the affected unions and will threaten the viability of many locals. Worker power has already suffered death by a thousand cuts, some political, others judicial and regulatory; some at the hands of a changing domestic workplace, others stemming from relentless global forces. Corporate America recognized these trends early on and capitalized on them ruthlessly. Labor organizations were ill equipped to do so and have been on the defensive for the past four decades. Two trends demonstrate the decline of labor and the ascent of business. Since 1979, after-tax corporate profits as a share of gross domestic product have grown by 22.8 percent, while the share of nonfarm business sector income going to labor has dropped by 10.3 percent. In response to my query, Martha McCluskey, a professor of law at the University at Buffalo, emailed: The decline in worker bargaining power in the United States is the cumulative effect of numerous small and large changes over recent decades reaching into almost every area of law and policy. This combines with a decline in the enforcement of existing laws that could protect workers’ bargaining power — laws protecting unions, laws against wage theft, nondiscrimination laws, and more. The “small and large changes over recent decades” to which McCluskey refers increase the clout of corporate management and reduce the power of workers over wages, benefits and job security. Among these changes is the requirement that employees sign what are known as “noncompete” and “no-raid” agreements, both of which restrict workers’ ability to extract pay hikes by threatening to take similar jobs at competing companies. “Non-competes are sometimes used to protect trade secrets, which can promote innovation,” according to a 2016 report by the Treasury Department, but “less than half of workers who have non-competes also report possessing trade secrets.” The report went on to question the use of noncompete agreements, especially for low-wage workers: When entry-level workers at fast food restaurants are asked to sign two-year non-competes, it becomes less plausible that trade secrets are always the primary motivation for such agreements. The treasury report estimated that 30 million American workers have signed noncompete agreements. Krueger, an economist at Princeton and the former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, wrote in an essay last year, “The Rigged Labor Market”: New practices have emerged to facilitate employer collusion, such as noncompete clauses and no-raid pacts, but the basic insights are the same — employers often implicitly, and sometimes explicitly, act to prevent the forces of competition from enabling workers to earn what a competitive market would dictate. In a paper published last month, “Noncompetes in the U.S. Labor Force,” Evan Starr of the University of Maryland; J.J. Prescott of the University of Michigan; and Norman Bishara of the University of Michigan, found that Nearly 1 in 5 labor force participants were bound by noncompetes in 2014, and nearly 40 percent had signed at least one noncompete in the past. These included what the authors decried as sweeping noncompetes signed by temporarily employed Amazon packers and minimum-wage sandwich makers. Just as companies have weakened employee power through agreements like these, they have capitalized on the increased use of mandatory arbitration of employment disputes to limit their obligations to workers. Sachin S. Pandya, a law professor at the University of Connecticut, wrote me that in its recent decision, Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis, the Supreme Court effectively fueled employer use of mandatory arbitration clauses to cover individual employment disputes, including allegations of workplace discrimination and sexual harassment. By preventing covered workers from joining forces to take legal action over workplace issues, the decision undercuts employees’ leverage and empowers employers to “require their employees to waive their right to class actions,” wrote Jeffrey Hirsch, a professor at the University of North Carolina School of Law, on the Workplace Prof Blog. Hirsch cited the dissent written by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg: If these untoward consequences stemmed from legislative choices, I would be obliged to accede to them. But the edict that employees with wage and hours claims may seek relief only one-by-one does not come from Congress. It is the result of take-it-or-leave-it labor contracts harking back to the type called “yellow dog,” and of the readiness of this Court to enforce those unbargained-for agreements. The Federal Arbitration Act demands no such suppression of the right of workers to take concerted action for their “mutual aid or protection.” In much the same way that mandatory arbitration works, corporate outsourcing of jobs in combination with the general spread of precarious employment — in the creative economy, for example, as well as in the digital or gig economy (at Lyft and Uber, for example) — steadily undermines the security and status of workers. These developments may be masked for a while when unemployment declines, but not forever. By exchanging direct employment for contract work or outsourcing, David Weil, dean of the Heller School for Social Policy and Management at Brandeis, writes in his book “The Fissured Workplace: Why Work Became So Bad for So Many and What Can Be Done to Improve It,” major corporations succeed in substantially reducing costs and dispatching the many responsibilities connected to being the employer of record. This shift, in turn, creates downward pressures on wages and benefits, murkiness about who bears responsibility for work conditions, increased likelihood that basic labor standards will be violated. Krueger and Lawrence Katz, an economist at Harvard, document a sharp increase in outsourcing of all kinds in their paper: “The Rise and Nature of Alternative Work Arrangements in the United States, 1995-2015”: The percentage of workers engaged in alternative work arrangements — defined as temporary help agency workers, on-call workers, contract workers, and independent contractors or freelancers — rose from 10.7 percent in February 2005 to 15.8 percent in late 2015. That’s roughly 24 million workers. In addition, Katz and Krueger found that “workers in alternative work arrangements earn considerably less per week than do regular employees with similar characteristics and in similar occupations,” that “workers in alternative work arrangements work fewer hours per week” and that a larger share of alternative workers are involuntary part-time workers compared with employees in traditional jobs. Perhaps more significant, Katz and Krueger found: A striking implication of these estimates is that 94 percent of the net employment growth in the U.S. economy from 2005 to 2015 appears to have occurred in alternative work arrangements. The growing emphasis on “shareholder value” has provided additional justification for all of these anti-worker developments. Peter Cappelli, a professor of management at Wharton, wrote me that “the shareholder value movement starting in the late 1980s and now institutionalized through industry analysts” was crucially important in the devaluation of employees: Accounting in business is mainly about costs. Finance people hate fixed costs because of the challenges they raise to share price valuation when there is uncertainty, and the biggest fixed costs are labor. Simply moving the same labor costs from employees to outside staffing companies moves it from one part of the accounting ledger to another and makes analysts happier. This mentality, in turn, encourages “the use of temps and contractors” to fill high-wage jobs because “that way the employer doesn’t have to raise wages for all their employees.” Hirsch, of the University of North Carolina, explained that the automobile industry provides the classic example of these trends: When that industry was dominated by the Big Three in Detroit, union organizing was relatively easy. The U.A.W. could organize all of the competitors by controlling most of the relatively generally homogeneous, geographically tight work force. Once “automakers in other countries, and now the South, made more inroads, the UAW’s task became far more difficult,” Hirsch argued, because Companies could outsource work to areas with cheaper labor and less of a union presence. This both weakened the union and ramped up competitive pressure on the companies that were unionized. The result was fewer unions. This has obviously played out in many other industries. Hirsch’s point is supported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In 2017, 6.5 percent of the private sector work force was unionized, down from 35 percent in 1955. 34.4 percent of public sector workers were unionized. In addition, Hirsch pointed out, many union jobs are simply no longer in the U.S. Entire industries (e.g., textiles) were essentially moved offshore. The result is a “death spiral effect,” according to Hirsch: As membership declines unions are able to exert less influence. Moreover, as fewer employees have experience with unions or know others who have, it becomes harder to organize. The contemporary weakness of organized labor and the threatened status of employees has roots in the breakdown in the 1970s of the postwar capital-labor accord — what A.H. Raskin, the legendary labor reporter for The Times, called a “live-and-let-live relationship” that held sway for 30 years. The end of labor-management détente — and the emergence of a merciless assault by business and the Republican Party on workers’ pay, security and bargaining strength — have been especially cruel to workers without college degrees. In their book, “The Second Machine Age,” Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee, both economists at M.I.T., don’t hold out much hope for this broad class of workers: Rapid and accelerating digitization is likely to bring economic rather than environmental disruption, stemming from the fact that as computers get more powerful, companies have less need for some kinds of workers. Technological progress is going to leave behind some people, perhaps even a lot of people, as it races ahead. For those with special skills or the right education, they write, “there’s never been a better time.” For those “with only ‘ordinary’ skills and abilities to offer,” however, “there’s never been a worse time to be a worker.” A colleague of Brynjolfsson and McAfee, David Autor, offers a more optimistic take in a 2015 paper: In many cases, machines both substitute for and complement human labor. Focusing only on what is lost misses a central economic mechanism by which automation affects the demand for labor: raising the value of the tasks that workers uniquely supply. At a more concrete level, Krueger and Posner, in their Brookings paper, offer a series of well-thought out legal and regulatory reforms aimed at improving the bargaining power of workers. First, they would alter antitrust enforcement to require consideration of the likely effect of mergers on concentration in the labor market, in order to prevent “too high a risk of wage suppression.” Second, Krueger and Posner would support legislation making noncompete agreements “uniformly unenforceable and banned if they govern a worker who earns less than the median wage in her state.” In the case of “no-raid” agreements between companies that bar participating businesses from making job offers to employees of competitors, Krueger and Posner would ban no-poaching arrangements altogether: We propose a per se rule against no-poaching agreements regardless of whether they are used outside or within franchises. In other words, no-poaching agreements would be considered illegal regardless of the circumstances of their use. The reality, of course, is that the Krueger-Posner proposals have no chance with President Trump in the White House and Republicans in control of both houses of Congress. Trump’s appointees to the National Labor Relations Board have clearly signaled their plans to kill pro-worker regulations adopted during the Obama administration. So, too, apparently, has the Supreme Court. For the time being, at least, the problems of the least skilled workers in the labor market will fester. In the 2016 election, Trump profited from the conviction of rural and working-class voters that they were on a downward trajectory. If anything, Trump appears to be gambling that letting those voters’ lives continue to languish will work to his advantage in 2020. Trump’s trade policies show signs of backfiring and his proposals do nothing to address the long-term phenomena that may prove to be most destructive of low-skill employment: automation, particularly roboticization. Trump campaigned as the ally of the white working class, but any notion that he would take its side as it faces off against employers is a gross misjudgment. His administration has turned the executive branch, the federal courts and the regulatory agencies into the sworn enemy of workers, organized and unorganized. Trump is indisputably indifferent to the plight of anyone in the bottom half of the income distribution: look at his appointments, look at his record in office, look back at his business career and look at the man himself.