The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is being gutted from the inside out. Created in 2010 after the Great Recession, during which the typical American household lost one-third of its wealth, the bureau was established to put the financial well-being of families ahead of the interests of lobbyists and Wall Street. On Wednesday, the bureau’s new leadership effectively fired its Consumer Advisory Board, a volunteer body mandated by law that is supposed to advise the bureau, without ever having held a substantive meeting with its members. This sudden move and other recent changes at the bureau, including efforts to loosen rules intended to protect families and businesses, raise the worrisome prospect that the country will once again end up on a path to foreclosed homes, market failures and taxpayer bailouts. I have been the chairwoman of the advisory board since last October. Its 25 members are a diverse group of people from businesses, nonprofit organizations and universities who are committed to fairness in financial services. In my four years on the advisory board, we have offered feedback on consumer education materials, coordinated public comments on the bureau’s payday and auto title lending rule proposal, and brought insights that spurred internal research about new harmful practices in the mortgage market. My passion for standing up for American families stems from my personal history. I am the daughter of immigrants. My parents served in the United States Army, and my father is a decorated Vietnam veteran. I have often heard my mother speak of her difficulties as a young mother with two small children and a husband off at war, and my father told me of his struggles as a returning veteran. Like me, my fellow board members are committed to protecting American consumers. When Mick Mulvaney and his leadership team took control of the bureau in November, we on the advisory board tried in good faith to engage with them. We have been sidelined every step of the way. The bureau canceled our scheduled meetings this year, despite requirements in the law for those meetings. We sent two letters to the bureau leadership to object, and received no meaningful response. On Wednesday, when we were supposed to have our first meeting with Mr. Mulvaney, we were instead summoned for a 30-minute conference call with Anthony Welcher, policy associate director for external affairs. He told us that the bureau wanted new people without “preconceived notions” about the bureau. When I asked him where we had fallen short, or how the leadership of the bureau could know, without ever meeting us, that we have preconceived notions, he had no answer. What I took from his comments is that the bureau is looking for people willing to rubber-stamp bureau officials’ decisions, not for people who will give them independent and honest advice. Why fire volunteer advisers to an agency that is supposed to stand up for American families and until recently worked hard to do so? Before the change in leadership late last year, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau returned nearly $12 billion to the pockets of families who had been cheated or overcharged by financial service providers. Since the new leadership took over, the bureau’s work has taken a reckless turn. It has dropped lawsuits against payday lenders, and it is joining forces with payday and auto title lenders to challenge its own rule to bring minimum standards to that broken market. It has undermined fair lending and efforts to help students struggling with unprecedented debt burdens by taking power away from bureau offices that effectively fought for students and underserved communities. When testifying before Congress in April, Mr. Mulvaney voiced support for policies, such as adding a requirement for an often deadlocked Congress to vote on all major bureau rules, that would bring the work of the agency to a near standstill. Firing the Consumer Advisory Board is just the latest effort to take apart an agency that has done so much good for the American people. We can’t let this agency turn into a place where those who pay get meetings and the rest of us get left behind. We need a strong bureau as a defense against future taxpayer bailouts resulting from reckless practices unchecked by regulators. The Great Recession may be over, but families are still losing their homes to foreclosure. They are still losing their cars to unscrupulous auto title lenders. The dangerous mortgage loans that helped set off the Great Recession are beginning to reappear. If the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s leadership continues to dismantle key protections and push out independent experts, Americans will continue to see the unraveling of an agency whose job is to protect them.