Music can transport us back in time or help usher in new ways of thinking. It can capture a historical moment or offer an escape from the world around us.  We wanted to share a collection of pieces on the subject. Think of it as a little inspiration to appreciate the soundtrack of your own life. A majority of us, when we are grown men and women, predictably stick with the music that captured us in the earliest phase of our adolescence. “A real D.J. is part shaman, part tech wizard, part crowd psychologist, all artist. Many people claim the title but far fewer embody it,” notes the writer Selwyn Seyfu Hinds. In many traditions, music is divine. Thomas Carlyle called it the “speech of angels.” But even if music seems only transcendent, it’s hard to imagine an experience for which it’s better suited than the end of life, notes the writer Mark Vanhoenacker. And that’s why he has a playlist for dying. In response to this piece, readers shared their choices for their own deathbed playlists. So deep was the pain from three assassinations in five years that America craved some music to mourn by. Here’s how a 1968 song written by Dick Holler and performed by Dion captured the nation’s grief. We ought to remember the real roots of rock ’n’ roll, our national music, wrote Jon Batiste last year. When it comes to music, the “establishment” includes artists like Fats Domino. “Once I got the cochlear implant, a transmitter of rough-hewn sound that set my skull rattling and my nerves screeching, I found that music jolted my core in ways I could not explain.” Watch the video above to learn more about Rachel Kolb’s experience, and read her essay here. For the lineup alone, the Monterey International Pop Festival would rank as arguably the greatest music festival in American history. It became a model for subsequent rock music festivals from Woodstock to Bonnaroo and was a touchstone moment for the fusion of rock music and antiwar politics. “When I play, I know how to say that I’m angry, that I’m sad, that I have a crush on someone. It’s as if it were a language that is more my language than the one I speak,” says a young woman in this short film that explores music’s power to inspire children to escape poverty. It’s a common affliction, one that crosses all intellectual, social and economic classes: the Classical Music Insecurity Complex. Miles Hoffman, a classical violist and radio commentator, offers sufferers some therapeutic advice.  “Rock ’n’ roll. It drew me from my path to a sea of possibilities. It sheltered and shattered me, from the end of childhood through a painful adolescence.” — From Patti Smith’s 2007 Op-Ed article published the day she was inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame.  Humans have always prized music — or well beyond prized, loved it. Why does this thingless “thing” — at its core, a mere sequence of sounds — hold such potentially enormous intrinsic value? A 2013 Gray Matter column tackled the question. P.S. Also go on and watch Paul McCartney and James Corden doing carpool karaoke, if you haven’t already. Good stuff.We’ve been curating some of the best reads from the Opinion section each weekend. Here are earlier collections of favorites on love and relationships; the wonders of nature; the joy of swimming; and how we view money.