This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. American politics today is rife with cynicism. Many Americans don’t vote. Others do, while lamenting polarization in Congress and distrusting the two major political parties. I understand the cynicism. The situation in Washington is worse than any I expected to see in my lifetime, as I wrote earlier this week. But the truth is that our national cynicism is a big part of the problem — and that individual citizens, working together, have a significant amount of power to change things. It’s already happened several times in the last decade or so. A grass-roots movement propelled a first-term senator from Illinois, a man who was virtually unknown five years earlier, to the presidency. A very different movement, known as the Tea Party, then became an effective opposition to that president. Most recently, the so-called Trump resistance has helped save health insurance for millions of Americans — and has helped create a surge of voter turnout in recent elections. We’re living in a funny time: Americans are both disgusted by and obsessed with politics. If there is any silver lining to the Trump presidency, it’s the new spirit of political engagement that many Americans feel. In response to that new spirit, my colleague Ian Prasad Philbrick and I have put together a guide to help people get more involved in politics. It offers advice on grass-roots organizing, donating money, voting and even running for office. (For now, the guide is available only to Times subscribers, though it will likely be opened to all readers later this year.) One of my favorite parts of the guide is the story of a lawyer named Saily Avelenda who lives in north-central New Jersey. Shortly after Trump’s election, Avelenda formed a group of progressives whose mission was to keep their congressman, Rodney Frelinghuysen, accountable. The group started small, meeting in a coffee shop and on Facebook. But it stayed focused and committed to a clear strategy. It courted Republican voters as well as Democrats. It showed up at Frelinghuysen’s office, even in the rain. It repeatedly highlighted the fact that he had voted last year to take health insurance away from many of his own constituents. The organizing evidently worked. In January, with Frelinghuysen’s approval ratings way down, he announced he wouldn’t seek re-election. This week, Democrats chose a former Navy pilot named Mikie Sherrill as their nominee for the seat. She will be running what looks to be a close race against the Republican nominee, Jay Webber, a member of the New Jersey Legislature. Whatever your politics, grass-roots organizing really can have an effect. “We’re in this age of bottom-up citizen power,” says Eric Liu, author of a recent book on political activism. “And that’s true across the ideological spectrum.” If you’re a Times subscriber, let us know what you think of the guide, by email (leonhardt@nytimes.com) or Twitter (Ian’s at @IanPrasad, and I’m at @DLeonhardt).