This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. A G-7 meeting starts today in a Quebec village, and the United States will be in a position of distinct weakness. The tariffs that President Trump has levied against American allies have, not surprisingly, alienated those allies. In the process, he has handed a gift to China, the main rival to the United States for global supremacy. “Beijing can’t believe its luck,” Bonnie Glaser of the Center for Strategic and International Studies has written in The Times. “The isolation of the United States serves to reinforce China’s narrative that the United States is an unreliable partner, and it helps advance Beijing’s goals of weakening governance mechanisms like the G-7 that don’t include China.” As I’ve recommended before, Evan Osnos’s New Yorker piece — “Making China Great Again” — offers the best overview of Trump and China that I’ve read. Women in media. After my recent column about the shortage of female voices in the media, I heard a fascinating story about the BBC. Ros Atkins, a host there, and Rebecca Bailey, an editor, came up with a policy called 50:50 in 2016 to increase the number of women on a show called “Outside Sources.” The rule essentially said that 50 percent of all experts appearing on the show should be women. (It exempted subjects of news stories, like members of Parliament, because the show needs to cover the news. It also exempted hosts, because network executives — rather than the show’s producers — choose hosts.) When the project started, 39 percent of the show’s guests were women, as Atkins wrote for HuffPost. Within three months, the percentage was up to 51 percent. It has remained just over 50 percent since. The project has also expanded to other BBC shows. “We’re now up to 125 BBC programmes and digital teams and it’s expanding every week,” Atkins wrote to me in an email. Hard-and-fast rules can have downsides. But I like what the BBC has done. Its rule sets a clear standard — one that doesn’t let the show’s producers get away with making excuses about how hard they’re trying to book women on their show. But the rule also acknowledges that a news show can’t completely control the gender mix of its subjects. Atkins says he welcomes hearing from others interested in trying a version of 50:50. He’s on Twitter, @BBCRosAtkins. Related: The G-7 meeting and the upcoming North Korea summit are good reasons to mention Foreign Policy Interrupted, a group co-founded by Elmira Bayrasli, a Bard College professor. Its goal is to work with the media and female experts to diversify the public voices on foreign policy. “You solve this problem by creating a pipeline to the media,” Bayrasli told me. You can read more at the group’s website.