I was born without a pectoral muscle. It’s the right pectoralis major. My right, that is. Between my pale skin and my ribs is, well, practically nothing. Yes, I can still lift things, though a little more easily on one side than the other. And yes, I still have two nipples. People always ask that. In high school and college, I’d occasionally let this factoid slip. It was something of a party trick. I liked to think of it as the kind of thing that a loved one could use to identify my body in grim circumstances, like a tattoo. Early on, I resolved to never show embarrassment about it, no matter what emasculating nicknames it brought me (“One Pec,” “Mr. Pec,” “the Pecless Wonder”). I avoided gyms and locker rooms and the company of guys who liked to crack those kinds of jokes. I watched many a lovely, nerdy friend bury his Dungeons and Dragons manuals in the closet and try out for the football team or rush a frat or start maniacally lifting weights. I’m grateful that long ago, I sensed those roads wouldn’t take me far. According to my mother, my missing pectoral muscle was noticed almost immediately by the doctor who delivered me. There was no diagnosis of any cause for the defect, and I’m not sure if she even asked. It was just missing, and I accepted that absence as a simple fact for most of my childhood. It seemed reasonable to me that sometimes, in a complicated human body, one or two things might be left out. Certainly, I could be missing worse things. But over the years I began to wonder whether the absence had subtly redirected my life. For one thing, I had, from the ages of maybe 6 to 13, excelled as a swimmer. When I got to middle school I expressed interest in joining the swim team, but after speaking to the coach, my mother told me that it wasn’t a good idea. Eventually, my missing muscle was going to hinder my speed. It was around this point that I began to wonder whether there was a name for my condition. This was in the mid ’90s, so I couldn’t just WebMD the symptoms. But I was savvy about AltaVista and I soon found some dense medical papers on something called Poland syndrome. The syndrome — named for the surgeon Alfred Poland — usually involves a rare birth defect, an underdeveloped or missing pectoral muscle. It occurs in males more than twice as often as in females and affects the right muscle about 75 percent of the time. Some estimates place the frequency around one in 100,000 births. It all fit, though I luckily did not have the webbed fingers that, I learned, often appear on the same side as the missing muscle. I also read that many people with Poland syndrome have brachydactyly, or shorter fingers on the hand on the affected side. Ridiculous, I thought, and then, as if to demonstrate this, I pushed my palms together and — for the first time in my life — saw that the fingers on my right hand were indeed shorter. And not just a little shorter. A half-inch, I measure now on my adult fingers, from pinky to thumb — except for the pointer finger, which is a full seven-eighths of an inch shorter on the right. I remember staring down at my mismatched hands, feeling betrayed — not by my genes, but by my observational powers. How could I have had hands of different sizes my whole life and never known it? What other strange features was my body hiding? In the years since then, I have read more about Poland syndrome. In severe cases, people have kidney or lung abnormalities or their heart is on the right side instead of the left. I feel lucky not to have these more serious issues. Of all the syndromes to arbitrarily have, this one seems fairly easy to put up with. But was it arbitrary? The day after my AltaVista search, I presented my findings to my mother, thinking she would be proud of me for solving the mystery. But she was aghast. She immediately homed in on a section of the medical paper that I had not even bothered to read, which dealt with the hypothesized causes of the syndrome. Researchers believe, without quite knowing why, that the syndrome might result from a disruption to the embryonic blood flow around the 46th day of gestational development. My mother immediately remembered having a bad case of flu when she was pregnant with me, bad enough that she’d gone to a doctor and been given a prescription for a drug to combat the illness. She did the math. Yes, it would have been right around the 46th day. It could just be a coincidence — no one knows what causes the disorder. And some rare cases do seem to be genetic instead. Nonetheless, she felt responsible, though I’ve told her I don’t see it that way. Many times she has asked whether I would want to have some sort of corrective surgery — a relatively simple procedure can be done to put in an implant. Once she even found an article suggesting that some kind of robotic muscle replacement might soon be available. But I’ve never seriously entertained the thought of plastic surgery or going cyborg. I think of my missing muscle less as a defect and more as an inexorable facet of what it is to be me. I think of it as a uniqueness — though I’ve learned of other people with the same condition. A co-worker’s brother. A girlfriend’s sister’s boyfriend. And, apparently, the actor Ted Danson. (If we ever meet, we’ll have an icebreaker.) I have some trouble when it comes to rowboats, but I still love to swim. If it has changed the way I determine the company I keep, or the ways I think about masculinity, I think that has been for the best. My aversion to lifting weights has endured, but as long as I can pick up my kids, I have the upper-body strength I need. What I still dwell on is the coincidence of it all. Had my mother not walked too close to some sneezing person, would she not have gotten sick? Would I be someone completely different now? It fills me with a kind of wonder at life — at the ways in which tiny coincidences and their consequences shape it, and how we adjust our own narratives to absorb this randomness. Being able to see that has been a gift, even if I end up rowing in circles.