My parents are empty-nesters, but a visit home feels crowded. There are Joe and Mika, flirtily bickering over breakfast. After dinner, Rachel holds forth like a beloved fictional boarding school teacher. Looking for a phone charger during the day, I walk past panels of ethics experts, muted and forgotten. This is life with an MSNBC mom: a liberal woman whose retirement years have coincided with the rise of Donald Trump and who seeks solace, companionship and righteous indignation in cable news. (Not pictured: my father, a Republican-turned-independent, absorbed in his iPad, pretending to be out of earshot.) MSNBC is not my mom’s only news source — nor her only act of political engagement. But if the hours spent watching MSNBC are an index of a certain strain of liberal occupation, that index is at an all-time high, and not just in our house.. In April, MSNBC posted record-breaking viewership for the first quarter of 2018 — up even from the heady inauguration days of early 2017. The network crows about large gains in the advertiser-beloved demographic of viewers ages 25 to 54, but its total day audience among the 55-plus set has tripled since 2015, according to Nielsen — the work of MSNBC moms (and dads, aunts and uncles and grandparents). During the same period, the audience tipped from slightly male to 54 percent female, a small but — anecdotally speaking — enthusiastic majority whose new MSNBC habit can be observed during holiday gatherings and Sunday afternoon catch-up calls. It’s logical that an unpredictable president is a boon to news outlets. But as a password-borrowing millennial, I was surprised that the Trump effect touched television. Didn’t many people decide cable news was bad when Fox News gave birth to President Trump? What do all those talking heads actually talk about all day? What I learned from my MSNBC mom, my MSNBC mom’s friends and my friends’ MSNBC moms is that cable news can play a symbiotic role with social media and straight news. MSNBC makes an authoritative narrative out of reports, takes and jokes that feel fragmented on Twitter. It is a safe space to contemplate issues viewers feel they can’t bring up in mixed company (especially when mixed company liked a post about “Spygate” on Facebook). An evening with Ari, Chris, the other Chris and Rachel isn’t just about licking the wounds of 2016. It shores up progressive bona fides called into question by both-sides-ism and liberal hand-wringing. MSNBC’s popularity mirrors the rise of conservative media, said Sarah Sobieraj, a Tufts University sociologist and author of “The Outrage Industry.” For the past 20 years, right-wing talk radio and Fox News have assured conservatives who felt their way of life was threatened that their politics didn’t make them bad people (and did little to address their suspicion that women, people of color and immigrants — as opposed to, say, outsourcing and wage stagnation — were to blame). Today, it’s liberals who feel that their way of life is under siege, Professor Sobieraj told me, because a president was elected for views his conservative peers had been shamed into suppressing. For liberals, watching beliefs they find abhorrent “be applauded, voted and institutionalized is unnerving, upsetting and probably confusing,” she said. Consuming liberal media — whether it’s MSNBC, “Pod Save America” or John Oliver — is like “going to a political church.” “You listen to someone say the things you feel in a more powerful, dramatic way,” Professor Sobieraj said. My MSNBC mom, Maggie Stoeffel, isn’t new to cable news. As a stay-at-home parent, she followed Katie Couric from her reporting on the Gulf War to the tamer waters of anchoring “Today” and, after Sept. 11, ditched Martha and Oprah for CNN. After going back to work, she woke up to “Morning Joe” and kept up with Twitter throughout the day. Now retired, she can tune into an entire lineup covering “the Trump White House downfall mini-series,” as she wishfully put it. Before I could formally interview her about MSNBC, my mom put her thoughts in a 700-word email, organized by anchor. The longest section was about Nicolle Wallace. “I think she’s a superstar,” she wrote. “She’s a Republican, so watching her show I feel no one (Dad) can accuse me of hanging out in my liberal media echo chamber.” As she went on to describe how Ms. Wallace makes her viewers feel that they’re in her inner circle, chatting with really smart friends, I felt a pang of jealousy. Wasn’t I an adequately delightful moderator of family political debates? But then, most of the time, I’m not there. I’m safely ensconced in my digitally tethered Brooklyn progressive bubble, whereas my mom, living in the swing state of Pennsylvania — with neighbors she actually knows — has to tread lightly. This is what I gleaned from her friend Sally Duffy, in Wisconsin, whom I caught having her ritual 5 p.m. glass of wine with Ari Melber. (“Of course, he doesn’t know we’re having wine,” she said.) Ms. Duffy never watched cable news before Mr. Trump was elected, but she has also become wary of bringing up politics among friends and family. Living where Milwaukee blue turns to suburban red, she said, “I don’t have many people to talk to and I needed reassurance that I wasn’t alone in this.” She likes Mr. Melber for his legal expertise, his rap references and his reluctance to shout. She follows his show with Chris Hayes, and then she might watch Rachel Maddow, unless her husband is home. Ms. Duffy hasn’t converted him to MSNBC, she said, but she has drawn him into the drama of seeing which Louise Mensch tweets turn out to be true. The network star and “All In” host Chris Hayes is feeling the MSNBC mom love at book events, where parent-child pairs — and mother-daughter pairs in particular — line up for a photo or book signing. “A lot of times it’s the mom who got really into the show and talked it up to her daughter,” he said. Mr. Hayes said his viewers’ connection to him has become “intense and visceral” since Mr. Trump’s election, partly because they can feel that he’s just trying to figure it out too. “It’s all pretty bewildering to me,” he said. Growing audiences offer some relief from ratings pressure, Mr. Hayes said, but they are counterbalanced by the pressure to get things right. “It feels easier to screw up in this era,” he said, and those mistakes feel more costly for everyone. “The most powerful person in the country — and arguably the world — is a person who manifestly does not care about getting it right, and because of that has an insidious power to drag other people down to his level.” What does it mean, these days, to get things right? I talked about this with another MSNBC mom, Wendel Meldrum, an actor, writer and, until recently, print media devotee in Laurel Canyon, Calif. “The ‘truth’ from media is so varied,” she told me. “My relationship to truth is more fluid now.” On the issues she cares about most, she focuses on the policy impact of the news. When it comes to the Russia investigation, Ms. Meldrum said, she checks in with her people on Twitter, then watches Rachel Maddow, to see where she is with the information she’s gotten from Twitter. “It’s a pretty amazing feeling,” she said. “She’s bringing long-known Twitter news into the mainstream.” Ms. Meldrum’s comfort with subjectivity is familiar to me, with my post-structural liberal arts education. But it’s not very #resistance. So I asked MSNBC moms: What is the difference between MSNBC and Fox News? In response, I heard that Fox News is chaotic, reflecting a moral vacuum among Republicans. MSNBC anchors, however biased, approach debate from a more coherent ideological stance. My mom told me that MSNBC — far from whipping up partisan fervor — actually calms her down after a day reading Twitter. (My dad: “I don’t think that is true.”) As to whether the MSNBC moms might still be living in an echo chamber? To their credit, they’re not sure. But they’re also not sure where else to go. On this front, I relate to them. I know where I stand politically and I want information tailored to my political objectives. I’m no stranger to media as companionship. And until my mom gets into “Vanderpump Rules,” the Russia investigation is the show we have in common. We talk about politics now every time we talk, deepening our relationship. I know her as a thinker, and I have a new level of respect for her politically mixed marriage. As a bonus, we have less time to talk about what so-and-so’s daughter did for her wedding. Still, I was relieved to talk to an MSNBC mom and middle-school teacher in Nashville, Maresa Brassil. She is a cord cutter, but she streams Rachel Maddow at night. Ms. Maddow’s detailed policy discussions arm Ms. Brassil with the information she needs for life in a red state. But on an emotional level, Ms. Maddow gives her more than group affirmation. “I’m glad that Maddow’s not trying to appear to take a middle road,” she told me. “Playing nice and trying to find common ground hasn’t gotten us very far.” Ms. Brassil wasn’t talking about the 2018 midterms specifically, but it made me think about Democratic candidates and their tendency to appear to take a middle road. It made me wonder whether a small part of liberals’ current struggles might stem from some people, maybe women in particular, not feeling entitled to demand the full scope of progressivism from their elected officials. And it excited me to consider what Democratic slates might look like if a generation of MSNBC moms were more engaged, more confident and less compromising.