FLINT, Mich. — Lead. It was real. I could see it in the blood of kids who visited my medical clinic here. It was the end of the summer of 2015, and children were being poisoned. Ever since the city’s water source had been switched from Detroit’s municipal system to the Flint River 17 months before, residents had been complaining, holding meetings and organizing protests. Nothing was done about it. A memo from the Environmental Protection Agency, reporting astronomical lead levels in the water, was leaked by a courageous insider. Still nothing was done. A national expert on the science of tap water found shocking levels of lead. Still nothing. Lead is a neurotoxin that can cause irreversible damage to the brain. There is no safe level. And yet kids and pregnant women were drinking the water. Babies were being fed formula that was mixed with the water. Mac and cheese was being made with the water. And the people in charge were covering up, stalling — or they truly didn’t care. Was it laziness or, worse, an indifference to poor black and brown people? Michigan’s governor, Rick Snyder, had made sure that state agencies were run like businesses. Officials seemed to be busy serving corporate donors and rubber-stamping the projects and plans that benefited them. The ethos of austerity prized dollars and cents over children and their health. To make matters worse, ever since 2011, Flint had been run by an emergency manager appointed by the governor. The city was $15 million in debt, and the manager’s mandate was to cut costs, strip waste and balance the budget. That’s why the water supply was switched in the first place — to save a little bit of money. Elin, an old friend of mine from high school who happened to have grown up into a drinking-water expert, was the one who pushed me to do my own study on the blood lead levels of children in my clinic. She had worked at the E.P.A. and knew everything about the risks of lead in tap water. When I got my patients’ blood lead numbers, I was nervous about emailing them to her; I asked her to meet me instead. She lived near the field where my daughter had soccer practice that night, so I printed out the results and stuck them in my bag. Elin texted me: “What field are you on?” Me: “3.” As the kids were scrambling on the grass and the other moms were talking about piano lessons and homework struggles, Elin read my findings. Most of my professional life as a pediatrician and medical educator had been pretty predictable. Clinics, meetings, presentations, red tape, training sessions and lots of talking with faculty members and residents and patients. But I’d always seen my work through the lens of social justice. To put it simply, health is justice, especially for the youngest among us. Now I was coming to see that my work couldn’t stop with treating patients and training other pediatricians. I was becoming something new — an activist, and a detective. Huddled there on Field 3 with Elin, I felt that my life was beginning to resemble an episode of “Scandal.” Elin is a reserved person, not a screamer or crier. But when she saw the study results showing that blood lead levels had increased since the water supply changed, she gripped my arm. “Numbers don’t lie,” I said. “No, they don’t.” “Flint kids are being poisoned.” A wayward soccer ball sailed toward us and we silently dodged it. “The whole thing is so hard to believe,” I added, shaking my head. “What is wrong with the state? Isn’t safe drinking water their job?” I kept thinking about all the worried parents I had seen over the past year. They were always asking about the water and whether it was safe. There had been so many news reports and rumors. My naïve trust in the government — local, state and national — had made a liar out of me. For months we told our patients the Flint tap water was fine. We even recommended it as a healthier alternative to sodas and other sugary drinks. Pediatricians are charged with keeping kids healthy. We take an oath to do that. Where had we been? Where had I been? Now I thought I could make it up to my patients. I thought my study — cold, hard evidence of increased lead in the blood of Flint children — would change things. But I was naïve once again. I wrote and called state health officials. I met with the mayor. I encountered more stonewalling and stalling — and every day the poison continued to flow. So, along with a growing team of doctors and scientists, I held a news conference to release our findings and demand action. It was an unusual thing for a local pediatrician to do. But that’s what you do when nobody’s listening. You get louder. The state — now under growing national pressure — finally acquiesced and within a month, the Flint water source was switched back to the Detroit system. It took a few months more for the state to acknowledge what it had done to its own people and apologize. By then, I had been thoroughly radicalized. Today the trauma of the Flint water crisis continues and the public health emergency persists. Our pipes were damaged by the untreated Flint River water, and more than four years later, the people of Flint are still on filtered and bottled water while the corroded pipes are being replaced. But Flint perseveres. We are building a model public health program to mitigate the damage caused by the lead. The science of brain development and resilience shows that for every child raised in a toxic environment or an unraveling community, there is hope. Hope in the form of interventions that have been proved to work, including home visits from nurses and social workers, high-quality child care, Head Start programs, preschool, the expansion of Medicaid, support for parents, mobile grocery stores, behavioral health and mindfulness programs in schools and a huge expansion of literacy efforts. What happened in Flint could happen elsewhere, as the push for austerity and a disdain for science are combined with antidemocratic measures like voter disenfranchisement, gerrymandering and state-appointed emergency managers. One of the lessons of Flint is that science and public health won’t save us without a functioning democracy. Being awake is not enough. We have to be loud. Only when we mobilize and have a say in what happens to our communities will smarter decisions be made — for the environment, for public health and for all our children.