In 2005, when I was 22, I was in a beauty pageant, and it involved wearing a bikini and high heels. The pageant was Miss Ex-Yugoslavia, a small event run by the ex-Yugoslavian community of Melbourne, Australia. It wasn’t televised to the world, as the Miss America competitions are, but all my mom’s friends were there, as was my family’s dentist, so I got to experience the chill that runs up your spine when you’re being ogled by people you don’t desire. The winner of Miss Ex-Yugoslavia would get a ticket “back home,” to whichever part of ex-Yugoslavia she wanted to visit Most of the competitors were in it for the ticket. Some were in it because their parents had pressured them. Several actually liked the idea of being judged on their looks, which they were proud of. I’d entered the pageant because I was a precocious film student and I wanted to film it — yet now the fear of the bikini had taken hold. Backstage, we agreed that we most dreaded that segment — a real-life version of one of those nightmares where you’re suddenly naked and everyone’s staring at you. Apart from the weirdness that comes from an undisguised objectification of young women, the Miss Ex-Yugoslavia pageant was weird in other ways, too. The competition pitted girls from the former Yugoslavia (which had dissolved because of the wars of the 1990s) against one another, to be judged by older members of the community. It comes as a surprise to some outsiders who know of the wars that ravaged our country, but plenty of ex-Yugos still see themselves as friends, despite having been enemies in the wars, and many enjoy events where Yugoslavia’s (prewar) slogan, “brotherhood and unity,” is being honored. Backstage at Miss Ex-Yugoslavia, we were sisterly and unified. We felt that the wars had nothing to do with us, young women who had been dragged by their parents across the world, some families escaping the war directly (like a competitor who had a shrapnel scar on her foot), others (like my family) looking for better work opportunities away from our crumbling home. The questions we answered on stage — “Why would you like to win a ticket back home?” and the like — were specific to our migrant circumstances, and when a Bosnian competitor answered the “what is your biggest wish” question, saying that she wished for Yugoslavia to be as it was before the wars, a loud cheer came from the crowd. Our parents, watery-eyed, watched us as we walked down the runway in our “evening wear,” gowns we would never wear in real life, as we did not frequent balls or high-class casinos, and the Yugo clubs we went to were more miniskirt-and-stilettos kind of venues. Older people clucked to one another about how beautiful “our” girls are compared with the Anglo-Australians we lived among, marveling at a Montenegrin competitor’s cascading black hair, the height of a Croatian girl. Younger male audience members, in their leather jackets and slicked-back hair simply hollered at us, excited about the next part of the evening: the bikinis. As each competitor went to the stage to take her turn, the rest of us hugged her and wished her luck. On stage we endured having people look at every part of our bodies and signal their approval with cheers, while judges jotted down notes. I was glad a makeup artist had used a tiny brush to cover the stretch marks on my butt, and happy I had dieted for weeks before the show, but worried I hadn’t dieted enough as my thighs jiggled down the runway. What did the audience see in us, as we paraded our flesh on stage? I like to think they weren’t there simply to watch our breasts and legs, but that they wanted something else: to be reminded of a land they’d lost, to feel like more than just immigrants, to be proud — finding a queen among our migrant youth. The bikini segment was not necessary for that feeling, though it was the most well-received by the howling crowd, and I wish we hadn’t had to do it. Does the Miss America pageant make everyday Americans feel proud of their country and what it has to offer? Does it make America seem pure and hopeful, embodied in the form of a lovely young woman? Is the whole thing slightly less creepy now that the young woman in question won’t be required to wear a swimsuit? I didn’t win Miss Ex-Yugoslavia; perhaps it was the stretch marks that the makeup artist hadn’t managed to hide. The judges introduced a new prize and honored me with it: Miss Personality. At the time it seemed to be a backhanded compliment: getting commended on my personality at a beauty contest — ouch. But now that the swimsuits are gone (from Miss America at least), the way is paved for other cynical girls with stretch marks to put themselves in the spotlight. And the rest of us can project our hopes and dreams onto a fully clothed queen.