So the Miss America pageant is going to finally stop objectifying women by no longer judging them on their physical appearance, but rather assessing them on the basis of their words, their character and their goals. And the organization is going to achieve this laudable goal in part by ending the bathing suit competition, wherein women were forced to strut across a stage in a bikini and high heels, and redefining the evening wear portion of the event, so that contestants can wear whatever kind of formal outfit they want — anything that they would deem appropriate for a black tie event — as opposed to the formerly mandated gown. Also: “The candidates won’t be judged on how they look in their attire, but on the self-confidence they exude and what they are saying,” according to Karl Nilsson, a spokesman for the organization. Really? Let’s be honest: Absent putting contestants behind a dark screen the way “The Voice” does for its auditions, which does not seem like it is in the pageant’s game plan, this is an impossible ideal. To judge someone’s self-confidence is to judge how self-confident she seems in her attire. And that is O.K. As soon as, say, Miss New York or Miss Kansas (and shouldn’t we be calling them Ms. New York and Ms. Kansas if we are being consistent?) appears onstage, people will be assessing her appearance whether they admit it or not. We all do it every day. Making these kinds of judgments is a reflexive part of human nature. It’s part of why clothes matter: They act as signals to those around us about who we are, cues to membership in a group we are in — or want to join, pieces in the chess game of public perception. And it is also why, though I am all for the end of the bathing suit part of the program, which always seemed old-fashioned in the absolutely worst sense of the term, I think it is the reformulation of evening wear that may have the biggest impact. It moves the protagonist from object to subject, puts the onus of interpretation not on the male gaze but on the female gaze. It also doesn’t pretend there’s no gaze involved. Allowing women to select their own formal wear acknowledges that it is on all of us to make our own decisions about what our appearance means. And it will be interesting to see how that kind of liberty plays out. It can be hard to break behavior honed by years of experience and peer pressure, and any contestant who has reached the Miss America level has been through at minimum two competitions beforehand (local and state). But the change is also realistic. Which is not a word that has been associated with Miss America in a long time. If ever. Previously, the judging guidelines for the evening wear section were composed of six criteria: the overall first impression; the sense of confidence; stage presence (“Does she command the stage? Is her presence felt ‘beyond the footlights’?” — this from the 2017 judges’ manual); walk, posture, carriage and grace; sense of style and appropriateness of the evening wear; beauty, attractiveness and charm. Though contestants were allowed to choose any type of evening gown, the unspoken ethos, judging from photos over the years, was that it should be either a long mermaid style or a fairy princess frock involving some combination of sparkle, cleavage, legs and tiny waist, and should be paired with towering stiletto sandals and flowing hair or an Audrey Hepburn twist. There was nothing really individual about it: It was a model of how to be a dressed-up woman with DNA inherited directly from Cinderella and Barbie. The change acknowledges a modern truth about the fluidity of how we interpret “appropriate” dress, which has not been as unilateral as the pageant world pretended for decades, whether we are talking formal attire or otherwise. Scan any black tie event, any gala, and there will be a woman channeling Marlene Dietrich in a tuxedo. A woman presenting herself as a medieval gladiator in gold chain mail. A woman who still buys into the royal dream, whether it involves Princess Grace or Princess Mononoke. All of those possibilities are now on the table for Miss America. A contestant could even wear ripped jeans, heels and a beaded tank top, à la Kanye West at the Met Gala 2016. Or a ball gown with sneakers, as Kristen Stewart tends to do whenever she has to get gussied up. These are the kind of choices that signpost personality. That require analysis and strategic planning, as opposed to obedience to a norm. That are, as Regina Hopper, chief executive and president of the Miss America Organization, said in a statement about the changes to the competition, one of “the necessary skills and resources” required. In the pageant, finally. As in life.