CAPE TOWN — A half-century from Bobby Kennedy’s assassination, let’s begin with his words in this South African city of mystical mountains: “But the help and the leadership of South Africa and the United States cannot be accepted if we — within our own countries or in our relations with others — deny individual integrity, human dignity, and the common humanity of man. If we would lead outside our borders, if we would help those who need our assistance, if we would meet our responsibilities to mankind, we must first, all of us, demolish the borders which history has erected between men without our own nations — barriers of race and religion, social class and ignorance.” That was 1966, in apartheid South Africa. How we in the United States have fallen, electing a president who incarnates ignorance, would erect walls on borders, knows not what dignity is, nor integrity, nor common humanity, nor the meaning of America’s alliances; nor even that a president’s Memorial Day message should honor the fallen, not trumpet low unemployment numbers. Trump has struggled with Africa. He twice alluded to a nonexistent country called “Nambia” — an apparent stab at Namibia — in addressing the United Nations last September, before he lumped the continent among the “shithole countries” early this year. Other than that, give or take a flurry on the import of elephant tusks, the real Africa, continent of nearly 1.3 billion people, has scarcely impinged on Trump’s “Chronicles of Nambia.” Here in South Africa, one of the continent’s three largest economies, there is no United States ambassador 18 months after the last one departed, and no sign of one being nominated. South Africans have taken note. Their country, scarcely mentioned by the president, sits at the bottom of a continent Trump disparages. That’s a pity. South African goings-on are instructive. The country has just emerged, its democracy shaken but intact, from nine years of plundering, corrupt rule by former president Jacob Zuma. The ingredients of Zuma’s methods will be familiar to Americans in the Trump era: policy as personal whim, contempt for democratic institutions and the rule of law, entanglements with Vladimir Putin, attacks on a free press, enrichment of pliant friends, and governance as an exercise in values-free narcissism. Poor Zuma! Dethroned now, he insists he’s cash-strapped, despite his systematic placing over many years of corrupt people that would do his whim at the top of state enterprises and government ministries. So penniless, he says, that he has no money to pay for his defense against fraud and racketeering charges that date back to an arms deal before he became president — and proceeded to turn the nation’s highest public office into the scandal-ridden hub of a quest for private gain. His successor, President Cyril Ramaphosa, who took office in February, has embarked on the arduous task of repairing the damage. Ramaphosa is everything Zuma was not: decent, skillful, at heart a constitutionalist. He’s not untainted, and his mandate is not strong, but he’s a serious, smart man who is determined to start over. There’s talk of “Ramaphoria.” The president is seeking foreign investment, having declared South Africa open for business once again. Certainly, many South Africans feel a long nightmare has come to an end, even if the economy is contracting and unemployment is at 26.7 percent. Geoff Budlender, a prominent lawyer who was deeply involved in the long struggle against apartheid, told me that “terrible damage has been done.” He spoke of “damaged institutions” — including a “broken police,” troubled situations at the national tax agency and Treasury, and “captured state enterprises that are in deep trouble.” Wherever he could, Zuma demanded not competence but loyalty, enriching business cronies like the now disgraced Gupta brothers who served his interests. “The question with structural and institutional damage is how do you reverse it,” Budlender said. In 2020, or just possibly before that, or perhaps not until 2024, the United States is going to face a similar question in the aftermath of Trump. His unrelenting attacks on a free press, an independent judiciary, truth, decency, and America as a nation of laws will have taken their toll. South Africa offers some encouragement. Its democracy — younger and flimsier than America’s — survived a deeply corrupting presidency. If it did, that was due to a vigorous press, not least the online Daily Maverick, and the strength and independence of its judiciary. I decided to visit the Constitutional Court in Johannesburg, guardian of the progressive 1996 Constitution that is the foundation of the new South Africa. It stands adjacent to the site of the Old Fort, where both Mohandas Gandhi and Nelson Mandela were imprisoned. In the courtroom itself, the 11 judges look out of windows set at the level of the feet of passers-by, a reminder that they are there to serve the people. A fire burns outside — the “Flame of Democracy.” In front of it, the preamble to the Constitution is engraved: “We, the people of South Africa, recognize the injustices of our past; honor those who suffered for justice and freedom in our land; respect those who have worked to build and develop our country; and believe that South Africa belongs to all who live in it, united in our diversity.” I shivered, for I knew in my youth a South Africa of iniquity. Kennedy would have approved. Trump would, well, nothing. America, like South Africa, will survive the Zuma-Trump test of a democracy’s essential character.