NASHVILLE — “I think you should write an article about me,” my father-in-law said last year, a startling statement for a man so private he abandoned Facebook once his friend list swelled to 27 people, even though at least half of them were his own children and grandchildren. “What should I write?” I asked. “Write about how you still love me even though I support President Trump.” I laughed. Of course I still love him. There was never any question about that. But a new study in the journal Science suggests how complicated love can be in a time of political upheaval. Combining cellphone data and voting results, researchers found that Thanksgiving gatherings in 2016 were significantly shorter in areas where travelers crossed partisan lines than they were in the rest of the country. The divisiveness of the last presidential election cost American families 74 million hours of Thanksgiving. My father-in-law joins us for supper several times a week, not just for Thanksgiving, and he lives in the same ZIP code, so no cellphone analysis would ever pick up the fact that political conversations can get pretty hot at our supper table, thanks to the divide this study observed. To me, the election of Donald Trump felt like a death in the family. I couldn’t sleep. I found it hard to focus at work. I was barely a click away from wailing and rending my garments. And every attempt my father-in-law made to explain the new president’s behavior just made me want to yank up his plate and dump it on his head. But people are more than the worst thing they’ve ever done, as Sister Helen Prejean often says of death-row inmates, and since the election I’ve been trying hard to remember that people are also more than their political opinions. With my beloved father-in-law, though, it isn’t hard to remember that truth at all. This is a man who grew up during the Depression, raised by a single mother in the home of his grandparents, Irish Catholic immigrants. In the small-town South of the 1930s, being a child of divorce was as uncommon as being a Catholic, and my father-in-law, always shy by nature, grew up feeling a little bit different. He remembers riding his bicycle past the rural airport where a man had taken his airplane apart and spent weeks putting it back together, day after day. My father-in-law was watching as the man fastened the last screw. He looked at the lonely little boy, and said, “Want to go for a ride?” Without an instant’s hesitation, my father-in-law dropped his bicycle and hopped in. For his daring, he was rewarded with a bird’s-eye view of his hometown. Later, he earned an engineering degree on an ROTC scholarship and served his country in Korea, constructing entrenchments under heavy enemy fire. Back at home, he married my beautiful mother-in-law, and together they raised six children. He was a typical father of his age, leaving all the hands-on work of caregiving to his wife, but when she got sick with Parkinson’s disease, he cared for her tenderly, as though he had spent a lifetime taking care of others. He managed her medication, drove her to a zillion doctors’ appointments, helped her to bathe and dress. Every night, he tucked her in, leaning over the bedrail to kiss her one last time before turning out the light. She lived 18 years with that devastating disease, and he was by her side to the very last day. Yes, my father-in-law supports a president whom I consider an incalculable threat to American democracy and global stability. He supports a legislature systematically dismantling the best of what a government can do: provide a safety net for the needy, protect the environment, foster a culture of civility and inclusion, guarantee liberty and justice for all. It makes me heartsick to see what’s happening to my country under the president my father-in-law supports. But when I lean in close enough, all I see is my husband’s cherished father, my children’s devoted grandfather, the good man who loves this country exactly as I love it, even if we disagree on what that love calls us to do. My own father consistently canceled my vote — from the very first election I voted in until the very last election of his life. But there was never any question about our love for each other. Never. We argued politics at almost every meal — so vehemently that in 1982 the only thing my mother wanted for Mother’s Day was a promise from us both not to utter the name “Ronald Reagan” during brunch. But what came out of those arguments was respect. We both cared enough to be informed. We never agreed on what to do with that information, but neither of us thought the other was an idiot. My father-in-law will be 90 in August, and he is still the sharpest bridge player I know. He pays attention to the news, and he has no party allegiance. More than once in the past, he has changed his mind about a president he voted for, and I haven’t given up hope he’ll come around on Donald Trump, too. But even if he doesn’t, I’ll love him exactly as I always have. The president is polarizing and poisoning the country I love, but I won’t let him poison this family, too.