From the late 1800s well into the 20th century, thousands of people, mostly black and poor, were murdered by lynch mobs that sometimes burned their victims alive, castrated them or cut their bodies up into little pieces that were passed around as souvenirs. Southern newspapers justified these horrors by calling lynching victims “fiends,” “brutes” or “ravishers,” leaving their guilt unquestioned. Lurid details of supposed rapes of white women by black men, often entirely fabricated, were recounted in Southern papers to justify, or even to incite, lynchings. In a landmark move, The Montgomery Advertiser recently apologized for its role in justifying and promoting lynching. But many Northern papers were just as complicit. Consider these headlines about Southern lynchings from The Washington Post and The Chicago Tribune, respectively: “Negro Brute Lynched: Attempted Assault on Young Daughter of a Farmer,” “Criminal Calendar: Two Murderous and Thieving Negroes Lynched by a Kentucky Mob.” In 1893 The Saint Paul Daily Globe ran the headline “Deserved It All: A Brutal Negro Lynched by Indignant Farmers.” From The Brooklyn Daily World in 1891: “This Brute Lynched. Tennessee Negro Pays the Penalty for a Fiendish Crime.” The New York Times ran the headline “A Brutal Negro Lynched” 11 times from 1880 to 1891. Sometimes Northern papers were simply parroting their white Southern sources, but the papers were no better when reporting on lynchings in their home states. In 1889, for example, The Michigan Herald ran the headline: A BRUTE LYNCHED ————- A Michigan Mob’s Vengeance on a Colored Ravisher. ————- TORN FROM THE PORT HURON JAIL ————- Dragged Through the Streets at the End Of a Rope — Swung from a Bridge After Being Beaten and Shot ———- The Enterprise of Wellington Ohio reported on June 9, 1897: A LYNCHING IN OHIO ————- Citizens of Urbana String Up a Black Brute. ————- The Michigan Herald also printed a note supposedly written by the white woman who accused the lynched man of assault: “Never did soldiers die on any battle field for a more holy and righteous cause than did these brave boys for the purity of their homes, for mothers, daughters, and sisters.” My research, and that of many others, shows that Northern newspapers slowly and unevenly became more critical of lynching starting around the 1890s when activists like Ida B. Wells made American lynching an embarrassment in the eyes of the “civilized world” (Britain and Europe generally). The British press began to take a serious interest in American lynching when, in 1891, a New Orleans mob broke out of jail 11 Italian immigrants, who had just been acquitted or mis-tried on charges of murdering the police chief, and hanged them. Italy demanded that the federal government prosecute the mob, and when that didn’t happen, it cut off diplomatic ties with the United States. This became the first major international news story about American lynching, shaming America in the eyes of the “civilized world.” The Manchester Guardian, for instance, referred to it as a massacre, and the British press generally began to doubt American “civilization.” While Ida B. Wells was on a speaking tour of Britain in 1894, she used the political fallout of the New Orleans lynching to draw international attention to the lynching of black Americans. Wells had tried for years, mostly unsuccessfully, to turn the Northern white press against the brutality of lynching. The New York Times quoted Wells at length in July 1894, detailing a speech she gave summarizing her success in publicizing American lynching in Britain. Yet shortly thereafter, The Times ran an editorial that, although denouncing some overzealous lynch mobs as “savages,” argued that rape, “a crime to which negroes are particularly prone,” was an extreme provocation to white Southerners, and therefore there was no reason for the British public to “interest itself” in American lynching. What these outside agitators — Wells, the British press and the Italian Embassy — accomplished was to embarrass the Northern newspapers, which eventually denounced lynching communities as barbarous and anarchic with headlines like “More Southern Savagery.” Many Southern white papers, for their part, dug in their heels and denounced the Northern press, continuing to justify lynching as a necessary protection for white women, and seizing on racial violence in the North as instances of Northern hypocrisy. Following the lynching of George White in Delaware in 1903, for instance, The Atlanta Constitution indignantly editorialized, “We want, and have the right to demand, that the northern press and the people of Delaware give us that long-awaited object lesson of ‘how to cure the lynching habit!’” We should welcome The Montgomery Advertiser’s efforts to come clean about the past. It is well past time that other papers, both Northern and Southern, follow their example. Perhaps a new memorial to Ida B. Wells being planned in Chicago can serve as an occasion.