Ten years ago this Tuesday, the Supreme Court ruled in Boumediene v. Bush that noncitizen terrorism suspects detained as “enemy combatants” at Guantánamo Bay had a constitutional right to judicial review of their detention. In this landmark ruling, the court also struck down an act of Congress that had largely foreclosed such review. It was a powerful affirmation of the rule of law. For only the second time in its history, the justices invalidated an act of Congress that sought to limit the power of the federal courts. And for the first time, it held that Congress had violated the Suspension Clause, the constitutional provision protecting habeas corpus, the procedure under which prisoners are brought before a judge to determine if their detentions are lawful. As Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote for a 5-4 majority, “Within the Constitution’s separation-of-powers structure, few exercises of judicial power are as legitimate or as necessary as the responsibility to hear challenges to the authority of the executive to imprison a person.” But for as much as Boumediene has solidified the role of the federal courts at Guantánamo, its legacy is very much in dispute today in another area: the detention of undocumented immigrants within the United States. In cases making their way through the federal courts, the Justice Department has argued that courts have almost no role to play in reviewing claims brought by noncitizens caught shortly after surreptitiously crossing the border — those who are subject to “expedited removal” under federal immigration law. A 2005 statute bars federal courts from reviewing most claims from these detainees, including claims that they are legally eligible for asylum, and the courts have thus far concluded that the statute is not unconstitutional despite the Boumediene ruling. Boumediene’s legacy has proved as controversial as the decision itself. Critics have argued for years that it either went too far, by extending the Constitution’s protection for habeas corpus to noncitizen terrorism suspects outside the United States, or not nearly far enough, by extending habeas corpus only to Guantánamo and by not providing guidance on the procedural, evidentiary and substantive rules to govern these habeas cases. One judge on the Court of Appeals for District of Columbia Circuit went so far as to compare the justices in the majority to the characters in “The Great Gatsby” — “careless people” who “smashed things up” and “let other people clean up the mess they had made.” These critiques mistake Boumediene for a decision about the rights of detainees. Properly understood, it was a ruling about the separation of powers and the role of the federal courts vis-à-vis the political branches, and not about the rights of terrorism suspects. As Justice Kennedy explained, the Constitution’s protection of the writ of habeas corpus ensures that “the judiciary will have a time-tested device, the writ, to maintain the ‘delicate balance of governance’ that is itself the surest safeguard of liberty.” So conceived, the basic sin of Guantánamo was not that the federal government was holding detainees in violation of their rights; it was that the detainees were being held without any opportunity to have courts decide if they were being properly held in the first place. At its core, Boumediene was about the rule of law, and whether the political branches would have the last word when it came to the detention of noncitizens at Guantánamo. Emphatically, the Supreme Court said no. By that standard, Boumediene was largely a success. Although the District of Columbia Circuit refused to extend its holding to include the battlefield detention of noncitizens in Afghanistan, the federal district courts in that circuit have spent much of the past decade developing a sophisticated jurisprudence to govern Guantánamo cases. Thirty of the 61 detainees whose cases were finally decided ultimately prevailed and were released. There is widespread debate over the merits of these rulings, but the inescapable fact on which all agree is that the open legal questions were resolved by the federal courts, not the political branches. It is also all but a given that the meaningful judicial review demanded by Boumediene was at least one factor in the efforts by the George W. Bush and Obama administrations to wind down detention at Guantánamo, where the detainee population has declined from 269 on the day Boumediene was decided to 40 today. And, just as important, Boumediene added a meaningful, if contested, imprimatur of legitimacy to military detention at Guantánamo, by placing it fully within the legal system of the United States. Undocumented aliens subject to expedited removal have not fared as well. In one especially breathtaking decision, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Philadelphia sought to sidestep the 2008 Boumediene ruling by noting that the justices had been focused only on when the suspension clause should apply outside the United States, and did not mean to also apply it to those detained on American soil. By that logic, at least some noncitizens arrested within the United States are less entitled to judicial review of their detention (and potential deportation) than enemy belligerents captured on foreign battlefields and detained at Guantánamo. Although these cases started during the Obama administration, the stakes have been raised by the Trump administration’s apparent plan to expand the scope of “expedited removal,” and, with it, the class of noncitizens who would thereby lack access to the courts to vindicate their right to asylum or otherwise challenge deportation. The question of whether these undocumented aliens are protected by habeas corpus is being considered by the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco, in a case that was argued on May 17. If that appeals court disagrees with its Philadelphia-based counterpart, the issue will probably make its way back up to the Supreme Court, which would have an opportunity to clarify the role it believes federal courts should play in reviewing the detention and deportation of noncitizens who are physically, but not lawfully, in the United States. But even in the absence of a split in the federal courts of appeals, the justices ought to weigh in. As these cases suggest, the Boumediene decision’s powerful reassertion of the role of the federal courts in holding the political branches to account in detention cases is coming under a serious and potentially fatal attack.