This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Voting rights. Monday’s Supreme Court decision on voting rights was another “Merrick Garland decision”— that is, a decision effectively made by the Senate’s refusal to let President Barack Obama fill a Supreme Court vacancy. Obama nominated Garland, a widely respected, moderate judge, in 2016, and the Senate ignored the nomination. In Garland’s place, President Trump later nominated, and the Senate confirmed, the deeply conservative Neil Gorsuch. In Monday’s case — on Ohio’s aggressive purging of its voter-registration rolls — Gorsuch provided the swing vote supporting Ohio’s policy. There are going to be many more Merrick Garland decisions over the years, and each one is an injustice. They reward the Republican Party for its radical tactics. Yes, both parties deserve some blame for creating today’s extreme partisanship, but the Republican Party’s behavior has been significantly worse. With that being said, it’s important not to conflate the injustice of Monday’s decision with its impact. And I think some discussion of the Ohio case exaggerated its likely effect. The Ohio law, to be clear, is a bad law. If an Ohioan neglects to vote in a single federal election, the state takes it as evidence that the person has moved and starts the process of canceling his or her voter registration. But the cancellation doesn’t take effect unless the person fails to respond to a mailed notice and fails to vote in three consecutive federal elections, spanning six years in all. The number of people who fall into this category and then attempt to vote — without re-registering — isn’t zero, but it’s not enormous, either. The Brennan Center for Justice, for example, filed a well-argued brief against this Ohio law. Yet Myrna Pérez, one of Brennan’s voting experts, also told me Monday, “Reasonable people can disagree on the consequences.” There are many other policies — like strict voter-ID laws, restrictive voting hours and long lines at polling-places — that do more damage than the Ohio law. I don’t like the law. I think it’s irrational and disproportionately affects minorities. I just think it’s important, especially with all the damage that Trump is doing, to keep bad policies in perspective. First, they came for the migrants. “We still talk about American fascism as a looming threat, something that could happen if we’re not vigilant,” Michelle Goldberg writes. “But for undocumented immigrants, it’s already here.” North Korea summit. The summit between Trump and Kim Jong-un ended with an agreement in which Kim “reaffirmed his firm and unwavering commitment to complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.” That might sound like a big deal. But as The Washington Post’s Anne Applebaum notes, the text “is remarkably similar to documents signed by US and NK in the 1990s. In the interim, NK developed a new generation of missiles and nukes.” You can view the similar language of past agreements, compiled by the nonproliferation expert Joshua Pollack, here. And as my colleague Nicholas Kristof notes, Trump’s agreeing to suspend military exercises with South Korea is a major concession. “Kim seems to have completely out-negotiated Trump, and it’s scary that Trump doesn’t seem to realize this,” he writes.