On Monday, the Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 to uphold Ohio’s program of canceling registrations of infrequent voters — a decision that history shows disproportionately strikes minority and low-income voters from the rolls. Under Ohio’s program, which a federal appeals court had struck down as violating the National Voter Registration Act, registered voters who don’t cast a ballot in two years are sent a notice asking them to confirm that they still reside at the same address. If they don’t respond, and then fail to vote in the next two federal elections, they are assumed to have moved to a different county and are excised from the rolls. Ohio argued that it needed to clean up its voter rolls to account for people who had moved, and that its approach was a reasonable way to do that. But it is far from reasonable, because while only a small percentage of Americans move each year, far more decline to vote in any given election — meaning that failing to vote is a highly inaccurate way of determining that someone moved. As Justice Stephen Breyer noted in his dissent, nationally, only about 4 percent of people move from one county to another in any given year. But many more people don’t vote. For example, in the 2014 midterm election, about 59 percent of registered voters in Ohio didn’t cast a ballot. In just one year, Ohio sent notices to 1.5 million voters under this program, about 20 percent of the state’s registered voters. Unless residents of Ohio are significantly more mobile than other Americans, there is no reasonable basis for assuming that so many voters there have moved out of their home county and should have their registrations canceled. But that’s exactly what Ohio assumed. Thousands of voters who never moved were kicked off the rolls. One was Joe Helle. An Army veteran who is now the mayor of the small village of Oak Harbor, Mr. Helle didn’t vote while he was deployed abroad. He didn’t learn that he had been removed from the rolls until he tried to vote after returning from tours in Iraq and Afghanistan and was told he was no longer registered. “I started crying,” Mr. Helle said. “To come home after defending that fundamental right and to be told that I couldn’t exercise it, that was heartbreaking.” Mr. Helle was not alone. According to a Reuters analysis in 2016, about 144,000 voters in Ohio’s three largest counties were purged. And, as Justice Sonia Sotomayor noted in a pointed dissent, Ohio’s program has “disproportionately affected minority, low-income, disabled and veteran voters.” Indeed, the Reuters analysis found that, in Hamilton County, which includes Cincinnati, voters in predominantly African-American neighborhoods were more than twice as likely to be purged as voters in a more affluent and whiter suburban area. The court’s decision has serious ramifications beyond Ohio. Six other states have similar programs: Georgia, Montana, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Several of these states have important statewide elections this November that are expected to be closely contested, including Senate races in Montana and West Virginia, and a contest for governor in Georgia. More worrisome, the Supreme Court’s endorsement of Ohio’s program may encourage more states to join the list of states that purge infrequent voters. The case is also notable because it represents yet another expression of the Trump administration’s hostility on civil rights generally, and on voting rights in particular. For more than 20 years, the Department of Justice had consistently argued that purges like Ohio’s were illegal. In 2016, the Justice Department filed a brief in an appellate court supporting the challenge to Ohio’s program. But the Trump administration flipped sides when the case reached the Supreme Court, submitting a brief defending Ohio’s efforts as legal. The outcome of this case is a major setback for voting rights, but it’s important to recognize that the court did not give a green light to states to make sweeping purges of eligible voters without first giving them notice and an opportunity to contest their removal. Justice Samuel Alito’s majority opinion recognized that federal law “is clear about the need to send a ‘return card’ (or obtain written confirmation of a move) before pruning a registrant’s name” from the rolls. We can take heart that there remain at least some notification safeguards, if flimsy. The Supreme Court’s decision turned on its interpretation of the National Voter Registration Act. Congress can respond by amending that law to clearly prohibit programs that, like Ohio’s, target voters for purging based on their failure to vote. States should also be encouraged to adopt Election Day registration programs allowing eligible voters — including those who have been knocked off the rolls — to register at the polls. Fifteen states and the District of Columbia follow this approach, and they see turnout rates as much as 10 percent higher than those of states that don’t. Two more states may soon adopt Election Day registration: Maryland, where the State Legislature has placed a measure on the ballot in November that would create such a program and Michigan, where the A.C.L.U. is supporting an effort to gather enough signatures to put a similar initiative on the ballot. Ultimately, if legislatures and courts won’t protect our voting rights, it may be up to us to do it ourselves at the ballot box.