This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. The last few decades have been full of huge corporate mergers. In one sector after another — airlines, energy, finance, media, pharmaceuticals and much more — the biggest companies have gotten bigger by buying other companies. And thanks to a court ruling Tuesday, a new round of mergers may be about to begin. Judge Richard Leon ruled that AT&T could buy Time Warner, rejecting the Justice Department’s argument that the deal would reduce competition and hurt consumers. The deal is known as a vertical merger, because it involves two companies in different areas of an industry. (A horizontal merger involves competitors.) Time Warner produces content, like shows for HBO and basketball broadcasts on TNT. AT&T distributes content, through its mobile-phone business and DirectTV. Now that Leon has approved the merger, many analysts think other vertical mergers in technology and media may follow. I was disappointed by Tuesday’s ruling, because I’m deeply concerned about the degree of corporate concentration today. I think it gives big business too much power relative to consumers, workers and the government — and it is a major reason why wage growth has been so weak in recent years, while corporate profits have soared. For a good overview of the larger issues, see this 2016 article from The Economist, as well as Gilad Edelman writing in the Washington Monthly on both the problem and the people trying to solve it. As for the AT&T merger: In The Los Angeles Times, Michael Hiltzik suggests that Comcast’s 2011 purchase of NBCUniversal is a guide to what may happen next. “The historical record bristles with evidence of the bad habits of media distribution companies given the sort of control that will soon be exercised by AT&T and Time Warner,” he writes. The Open Markets Institute, which advocates for a more competitive economy, calls the decision “a big loss for the public.” (The Atlantic has just published a profile of the institute’s Lina Khan.) And Motherboard’s Karl Bode argues that the AT&T merger is especially worrisome because of the Trump administration’s repeal of net neutrality. “We’re entering a strange new world of less oversight and greater consolidation that’s likely to leave consumers with fewer choices, less competition, and ample opportunity for creatively-bad behavior,” Bode writes. The Times editorial board explains the biggest reason to like Leon’s decision: The Trump administration appeared to oppose the merger in part because of the president’s dislike of CNN, which Time Warner owns. It would set a chilling precedent for Washington to punish media companies over their coverage. The case for Trump. The economist Tyler Cowen has produced some of the most thought-provoking semi-defenses of the Trump presidency, as I’ve written before. On his Marginal Revolution blog, Cowen has a short new piece about the North Korea summit. My colleagues Bret Stephens and Ross Douthat also weigh in on the summit.