A federal judge’s ruling on Tuesday to greenlight the merger between AT&T and Time Warner is a big boost to the competitiveness of the American economy and an even bigger win for consumers and shareholders. The decision was also a total slapdown of the antitrust division of the Justice Department, which sees monopoly bogeymen around every corner. The Justice Department must now decide whether to appeal the judge’s ruling, a move that would be sheer folly and a waste of taxpayer money, given the firm rejection of every argument the government’s lawyers made. Hopefully, this decision will also clear the path for other planned cost-cutting mergers in the media and telecommunications industries. The government’s antitrust challenge to this $85 billion deal was one of the flimsiest assaults against a corporate merger in recent memory. These two companies don’t even directly compete with each other. Normally, antitrust cases are brought to block so-called “horizontal” mergers, in which companies in the same line of business — two airlines, for example — want to combine forces. Even in such instances, the antitrust laws are antiquated, given that globalized competition and the speed of technological change continually knock down industry leaders. The core argument brought by the Justice Department, in an antitrust action championed by President Trump, was that AT&T could use its new market power to raise prices exorbitantly on cable and satellite operators that want to run Time Warner TV programs — such as CNN broadcasts or HBO shows. The government’s lawyers argued that consumers’ cable bills would go up if the merger went through. The absurdity of this argument is that the Justice lawyers seemed to be stuck in the 1980s. In 2018, the number of American households getting their television or video entertainment from traditional cable providers is declining. The very notion of “watching TV” is becoming as obsolete as listening to music on a turntable. My teenage kids and their friends don’t even own TVs. They watch “Game of Thrones” on their computers or smartphones, and one of their favorite “channels” is YouTube. They can choose from thousands of programs at a very low cost. Today, any hotshot with a camera and a Facebook page can be a media company. Is that enough competition for the Justice Department? In short, there is probably no area in today’s economy where there is less threat of monopolistic power than in media and entertainment. The proliferation of video content and ways to get it means that these companies must stay innovative and affordable, or they are gone as fast as you can say Blockbuster Video. In this cutthroat environment, the AT&T and Time Warner merger is better described as a survival strategy, not a market domination plot. The companies hope to lower costs by merging AT&T’s transmission of video content with the entertainment products that Time Warner offers. This merger could bring welcome competition to Google and Facebook, which have captured about two-thirds of the online advertising market, a point that the Justice Department’s lawyers ignored. Combining AT&T’s mobile, broadband, and DirecTV platforms with Time Warner’s movies, TV shows, music and sporting events could turn them into a serious rival to the tech behemoths. Businesses and families may also benefit from the merger if it accelerates the development of 5G wireless networks. The merged company could use its vast spectrum of resources to jump-start the delivery of Time Warner content through AT&T’s wireless network. This will mean new competition for residential broadband from cable companies such as Comcast. The days when companies like U.S. Steel or General Motors or Microsoft could accumulate the market power to dominate an industry and gouge consumers with higher prices are long gone. Some of the most powerful companies in the world — Amazon and Walmart, for example — do just the opposite: they are constantly lowering, not raising their prices. It is too early to know whether this mega-deal will turn out well for shareholders and consumers. But the Justice Department should not be standing in the way. Its goal, instead, should be to allow made-in-America companies like AT&T and Time Warner to do what it takes to become global competitors, not global dinosaurs. The Trump administration should be thankful that, in this merger, it isn’t China buying up America’s strategic companies or assets. These are two American companies merging to gain profitability and global market share. In this way, the merger helps put America first. Someone, please tell the lawyers.