“My papa swims really fast.” The voice came from the back seat of the car — a declaration that interrupted the quiet nattering that had occupied my daughter and her friend, Maxine, for half an hour. I am, now after many years, a more than proficient swimmer. I haven’t always been. When I was 11, I was the fattest, slowest kid on my summer swim team. Everyone knows that seals are delightfully fat and wonderful swimmers, but it wasn’t working for me. Somehow, even with the added buoyancy, I sank to the bottom. I tried to compensate for my lack of speed with what I thought was a fast suit and super fast cap. I convinced my supportive mother to buy me a red-and-blue-striped Speedo that was two sizes too small. Tight suits were more aerodynamic. Maybe it would constrain or counteract my girth. With a suit like this, I had to have something awesome on my head: gold, neoprene, sleek and flashy. The blue stripes on my suit were decorated with white stars. I lost every race. The lasting embarrassment of my “stars and stripes” performance proved sufficient motivation to turn me, by the time I was nearing 40, into a very good swimmer. I even won a few races along the way. And I was, on some level, glad my daughter had noticed. Of course Maxine wanted to know, “How fast is he?” “He wins medals,” Becca said, pausing so her friend could take it in. “You know the Olympics? He won them. Twice.” I used to tell these stories. I know how they originate, how they function and how they can, under certain circumstances, grow out of control. They are often benign, but sometimes they’re not. I told them so often, with such panache, that I am still learning how to forget, or at least recognize, them. It is very difficult. We cherish or despise, but ultimately occupy, the stories that we repeatedly tell. Like this. My father was six and a half feet tall and 250 pounds. He was a fast swimmer. He also won medals in the Olympics. And the World Series; he was a great pitcher. He could talk to the animals in the woods, paint beautiful pictures that hung in museums, and fly airplanes around the world. One day, when I was 4, he went up in a plane that didn’t come back. I told my friends that it had crashed, that he’d died. When I was 7, my mother moved us to a new town and Dad was reborn. He lived in Manhattan. He was a banker. Actually, he owned two banks: Citibank and Goldman Sachs. And the Mets. He had five cars, three boats and a jet. He had to travel for work. He was very important. When he came home he scared my mom and my brother. But I wasn’t scared. Not at all. He hit us a lot, but it never really hurt me. He drank a lot and yelled more. He drove drunk — all the time — which I knew was very, very bad. When I was 11, Dad got very sick, so sick he had to spend a year in the hospital. Then he died of drinking too much. That’s why he didn’t come around anymore. I didn’t care. I was tough. And besides, my father had been evil. He had beaten us constantly. When I was 13, a man who looked like my father showed up at my brother’s baseball game. He wasn’t really sick, or dead. He worked for the government, but I couldn’t talk about it. It was a secret. He was still important, frightening, and very large. After our encounter at the baseball field, he disappeared and slowly grew back into the monster I knew he was. A huge monster — maybe 300 pounds. And that is where the stories end. This is the truth about my father. He actually did die of drinking too much, but not until I was 29. I hadn’t seen him for 15 years. I remember standing next to him outside of Memorial Sloan Kettering hospital in New York and being genuinely surprised that his bald head came up only to my cheek. I say I am six feet tall, but that, too, is a lie. He was thin and hunched, like he hadn’t eaten a solid meal for weeks. He died of esophageal cancer, so this isn’t far from the truth. What else? He called me “the Bear” when I was a toddler because I growled instead of cried. I was proud of this. So was he. I won’t speak for my brother or mother, but he hit me twice in a not-just-spanking-you sort of way. I didn’t cry. And he pushed me down the stairs. Once. I didn’t cry. And he locked me in the garage to teach me not to be afraid of the dark. Once. This time I cried, but not very much. He drank martinis (often in multiples of two or more) and one night had to ask the bartender to drive him and his two little boys back to their mother’s house. I think he went home with the bartender that night. I’m not sure. All the other nights, he drove us home from the bar. I now know that none of this made him a monster. There are many sons who love fathers far more frightening than this. On some days, I wish I was one of them. My father didn’t die when I was 4. He just left my mother and our family. I didn’t cry. Instead, I began to tell an intricate story about why he wouldn’t be coming back. This was easier, far easier, than not knowing. It was easier to tell — even in its darkest forms — than the truth. He didn’t explain his absence, so I did. And no one corrected me. The German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, whose own father died when he was 4, instructs, “If you do not have a good father, you should procure one.” He’s probably right, but I never managed that. The best I could do was come up with a story, and not a very good one, but it was better than nothing. It is difficult to remember my father for many reasons, but at least in part because my imagination worked him over so thoroughly. The stories of my father were part of an elaborate coping strategy that made his absence seem reasonable despite, and probably because of, its complexity. I had to work at keeping the saga straight, which distracted me from the fact that when it came to my dad I had nothing to say. This may be pathological, but I suspect it is also deeply human — to manufacture an explanation for suffering that would otherwise pass in unbearable silence. “He who has a why to live,” Nietzsche writes, “can bear almost any how.” The story of my father — his fictitious jobs and violent rages — explained why I was fatherless. It was definitive, and more important, up to me. It was founded, I thought, on the truth: He was a banker; he could co-pilot a plane; he painted nice pictures; he liked to walk in the woods. He did drink too much, shouted too much and was free with his hands. But what I couldn’t face, or didn’t want to face, remained largely unspoken. The capital-T Truth is that he was, I think, a spoiled boy who grew into a man who didn’t enjoy or find meaning in the duties of adulthood, especially the responsibility of parenting young sons. He could be, and was, happier without us. This is the very simple, very excruciating story I am now trying to comprehend. “Are you a man entitled to wish for a child?” Nietzsche asks. “Are you the victorious one, the self-conqueror, the commander of your senses, the master of your virtues?” My father wasn’t. I’ll try to be honest: Neither am I. Most men are still working through their own childhoods when they become fathers. As good dads we’d like to spin a tale about being stable and even-tempered, but feeding a colicky baby or raising a willful 6-year-old are precisely the experiences that can put the lie to this story. When “we lose it” on our children, on our spouses, on the world — when we lose the story of our composure — some of us never get it back. We run in fear and shame, and our children are left to construct the narrative of a life all by themselves. Parents are flawed or triumphant, but never exactly in the ways our children sometimes imagine. I wish, very much, that my father had been there to set the record straight, or at least to tame my fantasies and fears. I don’t want the whole truth (that, I am sure, is too much to ask), but a story that everyone can live with. This is what I want, at least for Becca. The car was quiet for a long moment after Becca’s story of my swimming prowess. Maxine, sitting in stunned amazement, was still trying to digest the sheer accomplishment of it all. “Becca, you’re right, love, I’m pretty fast.” I cleared my throat. “But I want to tell you about my swimsuit when I was a kid. It was blue and red. With white stars. It was red, white and blue.”