In the national memory of 1968 — dominated by images of student protests, police riots and assassinations — the Boston conspiracy trial of Benjamin Spock, the world’s most famous baby doctor, and four other antiwar activists is too often forgotten. Yet, as a courtroom drama, unfolding at the height of the Vietnam War, in a season of upheaval, the trial — which ended on June 14, 1968 — captivated the nation and foreshadowed a prolonged series of legal struggles arising from protest against the war. The indictment of the “Boston Five” shocked the nation, not least because Spock was one of the most admired figures in America. To millions of parents who had bought his “Common Sense Book of Baby and Child Care,” first published in 1946, Spock had been a familiar, reassuring presence. Even as he moved into politics in the early 1960s — campaigning against nuclear arms testing and proliferation — he did so as a pediatrician, worrying about the effects on children. By 1968, Spock’s outspoken opposition to the Vietnam War and his support of draft resisters had drawn praise from his letter-writing public; many parents seemed to appreciate his risking his reputation to protest against the war, for sticking his neck out on behalf of their now draft-age children. But just as many wrote to condemn him. President Lyndon Johnson, for one, counted himself among Spock’s former admirers. In 1964, the president had been happy to have Spock’s public support on the campaign trail. By 1967, Johnson felt betrayed by the good doctor. In fact, Spock’s indictment originated indirectly with an October 1967 presidential order to Attorney General Ramsey Clark. Johnson, furious upon hearing reports that protesters had left nearly 1,000 draft cards at the Justice Department, wanted all draft resisters prosecuted or called for induction into the Army. Clark had other ideas. He could have gone after the students themselves; instead, he went after Spock. But he had an ulterior motive: By indicting Spock and the others, Clark, who sympathized with the antiwar movement, avoided destroying the lives of “thousands of youngsters,” as he put it, while also providing a forum where the issue of the war and the draft could be “vigorously debated.” It was important, Clark thought, to prosecute “ringleaders,” people with the support and resources to debate vigorously the purpose of the war and the draft. In the indictments, the government accused Spock; the Rev. William Sloane Coffin, the 43-year-old chaplain at Yale; Michael Ferber, a 23-year-old Harvard graduate student; Mitchell Goodman, 44, a novelist and teacher; and Marcus Raskin, 33, the head of a Washington think tank, for “unlawfully, willfully, and knowingly” conspiring to “commit offenses against the United States.” Those offenses, the government contended, were varied and numerous. They included counseling, aiding and abetting draft registrants to “fail, refuse, and evade” service in the armed forces; counseling, aiding and abetting registrants to “fail and refuse to have in their possession” their Selective Service registration certificates and their classification certificates; and hindering and interfering with the administration of the Selective Service System. To support those charges, the indictment listed several acts committed by the defendants that furthered the alleged conspiracy: the participation of the four older men in signing and circulating the Call to Resist Illegitimate Authority, a public petition urging Americans to support draft resisters and others who would break the law to stop the Vietnam War; the participation of Coffin and Ferber in an Oct. 16, 1967, service at Boston’s historic Arlington Street Church, where they presided over a draft card turn-in; and the presence of all five in the demonstration at the Justice Department on Oct. 20, where they left a briefcase full of nearly 1,000 draft cards collected from across the country. Taken together, the government asserted, these five men conspired to “sponsor and support a nationwide program of resistance to the functions and operations of the Selective Service System.” The indictment acknowledged that they were not alone in taking part in these activities and repeatedly referred to “other co-conspirators, some known and others unknown to the grand jury,” but indicting only the five implied that they were the primary instigators. Antiwar movement organizers reacted to the indictments with a mix of pride and anxiety. Finally, it seemed, the movement had won the attention of the administration. But was this the kind of attention it wanted? Many felt certain that the indictments were just the start of a sweeping campaign of repression against dissenters. Raskin predicted a “decimation of the intelligentsia.” Others saw the charges as an act of intimidation, meant to scare “doves” — those opposed to the war — into silence. Indeed, a young Harvard law professor named Alan Dershowitz argued that the indictments represented “a deliberate effort to frighten away scores of opponents of the war.” Of course, the defendants themselves knew that they, along with thousands of draft resisters, had in fact invited prosecution. “We hereby publicly counsel these young men to continue in their refusal to serve in the armed forces,” Coffin had declared from the steps of the Justice Department. “And we pledge ourselves to aid and abet them in all the ways we can.” In the meantime, the indictments fueled a sense of solidarity among those opposed to the war. Resist, the organization of older supporters that evolved out of the Call to Resist Illegitimate Authority, quickly issued a complicity statement: “We stand beside the men who have been indicted for support of draft resistance. If they are sentenced, we, too, must be sentenced. If they are imprisoned, we will take their places and will continue to use what means we can to bring this war to an end.” Signers included the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Noam Chomsky, Robert McAfee Brown, Dwight Macdonald and Howard Zinn. By the time the trial began, on May 20, observers had plenty of reason to believe that the Boston Five would go to prison. The presiding judge, Francis Ford, age 85, who had been appointed to the federal bench by his Harvard classmate Franklin Roosevelt, used a pretrial hearing to limit the defendants’ strategy of vigorously debating the merits of the war and the draft. Neither, he said, was relevant to the facts of the case. The defendants faced a dilemma: If they could not put the war on trial, what was the point? They considered standing silent, withholding participation in the trial. But legal advisers convinced the five that they needed to mount a full defense, if only to resist what they considered the abuse of conspiracy charges and forestall additional indictments. Consequently, defendants who started out hoping to win a political victory against the war found themselves waging a civil libertarian defense that quickly bogged down. Testifying in their own defense, Spock and Ferber did their best to discuss the horrors of the war and the injustice of the draft system, but most of their case got tied up in legal knots. While prosecutors focused on the persuasive power of the defendants — in effectively urging and persuading draft resisters to break the law — the defense responded that they were only stating their opinions, exercising their First Amendment right of free speech. It rang hollow. On June 14, at the end of a nearly monthlong trial, the jury found Spock, Coffin, Goodman and Ferber guilty of conspiracy, each facing a sentence of up to two years in prison and a fine up to $5,000; Raskin was found not guilty. A year later, an appeals court overturned the convictions because it saw Judge Ford’s charge to the jury as prejudicial. Although pundits characterized the Spock trial as a lost opportunity for the antiwar movement, it heralded an intensification of confrontation between citizens and the Johnson and, later, the Nixon administration. The trials of the Catonsville Nine, the Chicago Seven and Daniel Ellsberg for leaking the Pentagon Papers — all of those events came after the Spock trial, each an escalation of the government’s response to dissent. Halfway through 1968, with so many Americans grieving the recent loss of King and Robert F. Kennedy, the Spock trial only added to the national feeling that the country was unraveling. For many Americans, it is an unraveling from which the country has yet to recover.