When Congress enacted the Anti-Merger Act of 1950, the law by which American courts still adjudge corporate mergers, it did so with the repeatedly stated goal of fighting excessive economic concentration. The “dominant” concern, as the Supreme Court wrote in a 1962 merger case that analyzed the law, was about “a rising tide of economic concentration in the American economy.” At the time, the court explained, a wave of corporate consolidation posed the threat of an “accelerated concentration of economic power” and also a “threat to other values,” like the independence of smaller businesses and local control of industry. In particular Congress had said it intended the new law to stop a wave of mergers in its “incipiency.” That’s why, for the 1950 Congress, the law would surely have allowed the Justice Department to block the recent AT&T-Time Warner merger. The merger, which a federal judge approved on Tuesday, combines AT&T, the nation’s largest wireless provider and a major seller of pay TV, with Time Warner, one of the most powerful media companies, in an $85 billion deal. No one can deny that the new AT&T will have more economic power and also more political power than before, even as it now carries more debt ($181 billion) than many industrialized nations. The ruling, by Judge Richard J. Leon of United States District Court in Washington, implicitly encourages the rest of the industry to integrate as well, and AT&T’s comrades have taken the hint: Comcast has already announced its intent to acquire much of 20th Century Fox, while other deals are said to be imminent. Judge Leon’s decision shows just how far the law has wandered from congressional intent. The law has become a license for near-uncontrolled consolidation and concentration in almost every sector of economy. Whether involving airlines, hospitals, the pharmaceutical industry, cable television or the major tech platforms, mergers leading to oligopolies or monopolies have become commonplace. Reading Judge Leon’s opinion makes it clear how this has happened. The decision barely touches on Congress’s concerns about excessive concentration of economic power or other guiding principles or values. Instead, the opinion is mostly a tedious dissection of whether customers might end up paying an extra 45 cents per month for pay-TV service. How did a battle over 45 cents become how we decide the future of the media industries? Yes, higher prices for consumers are a bad thing, but they are not the only thing, and certainly not what Congress cared most about. In fact, the law itself doesn’t even mention prices: It instructs courts to bar mergers when the effect “may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly.” The case could have centered on what Congress really cared about: competition, concentration and the direction of the industry. On its face, despite being a “vertical” merger between two companies at different levels in the supply chain, the marriage of such large and powerful players in the media industry looks anything but harmless. One of AT&T’s defenses of the merger was that it wanted to take on internet companies like Google, Facebook and Netflix. But was that really a creditable goal of this deal? Was there good evidence of an effort to prevent new business models from taking flight? And what about the risk of setting off a wave of consolidations, leaving a fully integrated industry immune to new competition? These kinds of considerations would have yielded the question Congress wanted answered: Was the likely effect of the merger to diminish the level of competition in the media industries? Yet in vain pursuit of numerical certainty about the monthly cost of pay-TV service, the ruling never really came to address this broader question. The direction and structure of the United States economy is far too important a matter to be decided by a technical fight over price effects. Such economic questions are large enough, and important enough, that they should be decided by a democratic majority — and in fact, they were decided by a democratic majority in Congress in 1950. Conservatives sometimes complain about “judicial activism,” but they make a giant exception when they support the judicial nullification of the antitrust laws, as many are doing with the AT&T-Time Warner ruling. What Congress cared about in 1950 is even more important today. The public cares about the aggregation of wealth in the top echelons, the suppression of wages and the shrinking of the middle class, all of which are linked to industry concentration. That’s why Congress, in the wake of repeated affirmations that the anti-merger laws no longer work, needs to act. It should reassert that Congress in 1950 really did intend to preserve a competitive economy — one that is free, if possible, from what the Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis once called the “curse of bigness.”