In April I visited a crystal store in Minneapolis. Soft synthesized chimes played, the kind of sounds you get when you search for “spa music” on Pandora. I flipped through “The Crystal Bible” looking for a stone with healing properties for my sacral chakra — a center of spiritual power in the body. Next to me, a woman in a purple velvet newsboy hat examined fragrant bundles of palo santo wood, Spanish for “holy wood,” a serious look on her face. It had come to this. “Is this the gayest moment of my life?” I wondered. (No, it was not: I once slept with a woman who rubbed her hands with a squirt of organic lavender hand sanitizer from an enormous pump bottle before touching my shoulder while Tracy Chapman’s “Fast Car” played in the background.) But the crystal store moment made it to my Top 5. I was in a crystal store because I had injured my tailbone in February, and it wasn’t healing. It turns out you need your butt to do everything, and after seeing a doctor and two chiropractors, I was referred to a massage therapist/energy worker who worked out of a chiropractor’s office. The masseuse grazed her hands over my body and informed me that my root chakra, at the base of my spine, was holding a lot of grief about my mother and could not heal until I addressed it and cleared the chakra. Five years ago, I would have laughed and dismissed the energy worker’s diagnosis as nonsense. Expensive woo-woo garbage for suckers. My root chakra? O.K. And this session of hand-fluttering was how much — $90? Ohhhkay. But I stiffened on her massage table, and my eyes, squished into the puffy face cushion, widened — I hadn’t told her my mom had recently died. And soon after that, I found myself in line to buy a polished sphere of root-healing red carnelian. Two middle-aged women with matching haircuts held hands in front of me as they bought an oversize amethyst cluster. They nodded at me as they left, recognizing me for what I am now: one of them. It took me 15 years as a lesbian to finally become a person who pays attention to whether Mercury is in retrograde, someone who is excited about the summer solstice on June 21, a person who reads her Chani Nicholas horoscope each week with bated breath. This is the part of queer culture I used to mock the hardest. It has rubbed off on me, at last. And it seems I’m not alone. There has been a 40 percent increase in Google searches for “crystal healing” over the past four years. Major beauty brands like Glossier, Aveda and Dr. Brandt have crystal- and gemstone-enhanced products. You can buy clear quartz yoni eggs off Instagram to tap the inherent chakral sexual energy radiating from your genitals. And people who say things like “Oh! You’re a Gemini? That makes so much sense” in public are met with solemn nods, not scorn. But wait — queers don’t have a monopoly on crystals, tarot or astrology, you say. Of course we don’t; pagan rituals and practices have been around for thousands of years. Yet show me a larger group of people who’ve been more discarded by their childhood religions, or who’ve turned their backs on cultures, traditions and gods that don’t serve, love or want them as they are. Oh, look — it’s the queers waving back at you, plumes of smoke from smudge sticks wafting behind us like spiritual chemtrails as we sage away those negative vibes. In short: Lots of us are really into this stuff, and always have been. And where queers go, Urban Outfitters follows, years behind but ready to sell cheap crystal-, “witchcraft”- and astrology-themed jewelry to teenagers. Why is all of this so trendy now, though? Is astrology a religion for those of us with no religion? Are we, the hated millennials, obsessed with the idea of glimpsing our future because it feels terrifying and President Trump is going to get us all nuked anyway? Is it easier to just buy a heart-shaped rose quartz than deal with feelings or existential questions or to work on ourselves? Nah. The meteoric rise of New Age practices may be trendy, but it’s one way millennials are acknowledging that the current system isn’t working. We’re trying out new things that are actually old things; we’re seeing what else could make life a little more meaningful, a little more bearable. And if something helps you during a time of stress in your life, it’s worth it — even if you suspect it might be turning you into a caricature of the kind of lesbian you swore you’d never be. When my turn came at the register, I handed over my red carnelian and the clerk gently wrapped it in tissue. “You have a good day,” he said, giving it back. I cradled it, trying to decide which windowsill I would put it in at my house. The one with the morning light, I thought. Right next to my mom’s thin gold necklace, the one I always put in my mouth as I sat on her lap in church. Now, I’m not stupid. I may be a woo-woo, crystal-worshiping homosexual, but I know that a polished red rock is not going to heal my tailbone. It’s not going to bring my mom back either. It may not do a thing. But none of us know anything about anything, really. So why not be open to the possibility of hope?