For Father’s Day, we are sharing some favorite pieces on families and fatherhood.  From Sunday Review, don’t miss a photographer reflecting on the men succeeding at modern fatherhood; Frank Bruni on Barack Obama and others who have lost their fathers too soon; and one man’s story about becoming a father through adoption. And check out these highlights from the archive: Sometimes fatherhood is a matter of fate. Here’s a story of an abandoned baby, an adoption and, finally, a marriage. Phil Knight, a co-founder of Nike, wrote in an Op-Ed that “regardless of biology or circumstance, many of us, maybe most of us, simply need more than the one dad allotted by a tightfisted nature.” Read his essay on the influential surrogate he found. “Speak and hug from your heart and soul — while there is still time,” Nicholas Kristof writes in this tribute to his remarkable father, who fled Europe after World War II to start a new life in the United States. Viviana Andazola Marquez, a student at Yale, wrote eloquently about her father after his detention last year. (He was deported in December; she went on to graduate in May.) Klara’s father died during the Holocaust, but that was not the end of his story. The filmmaker Matan Rochlitz shares her narrative and its truly extraordinary epilogue. “‘I love you.’ Those three simple words messed me up for an entire week,” Wajahat Ali wrote. “It wasn’t the message, but the messenger: my father.” “I spent a year getting to know my dad in an unusual way,” said Charlie Tyrell, a filmmaker. “I was learning about his life and the things he did not have time to tell me.” For Viet Thanh Nguyen, the dreadfulness of the political world is distracting. But raising his son is making him want to be a better person. The horn, my one musical link to my father, had gone to jazz heaven. Or so I thought. We’ve been curating some of the best reads from the Opinion section each weekend. Here are earlier collections on love and relationships, the power of music, confronting death and how we view money.