INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. — I am a black woman born and raised in the space between the coasts and above the Mason-Dixon line. I am a face of the heartland, but you might not know it if you’ve been following the Trump-era reporting and commentary about the lives and political choices of people in the Midwest. After the 2016 election, it was common to hear musings about how Midwestern voters flocked to Donald Trump because he spoke to the America they wanted to make “great” — a descriptor that many argued was code for “white.” Richard C. Longworth said in a representative Guardian op-ed that Midwestern voters liked Mr. Trump because he articulated their resentment of elites, trade, immigrants and the Clintons. That kind of thinking has persisted. “Democrats, nationally, have not had a message or policies that have really connected with Midwestern voters, and that’s why we have lost elections here in recent years,” Paul Davis, a candidate in the Democratic primary for the House of Representatives in Kansas’ Second District, told Reuters in April. The revived sitcom “Roseanne,” before ABC canceled it in response to a racist tirade by its star, was heralded for the way the white family at its center gave voice to the “authentic” Midwestern working-class experience. These are all reminders that in the minds of many Americans, the region where I have lived all my life is synonymous with whiteness. Of course, that’s false. Approximately seven million people who identify as African-American live in the Midwest. That means there are more black people in the Midwest than in the Northeast or the West. Indiana alone was home to more than 60 black settlements before the Civil War. Most of us are products of the Great Migration, the exodus of some six million black Americans from the South from 1916 to 1970. We came here to work, drawn by the industry of the Midwestern Rust Belt. We came here for equal opportunity. It is a bitter irony, then, that many of the arguments about Mr. Trump’s appeal to Midwesterners make sense only if you pretend black people don’t exist in the middle of the country. We are told that economic anxiety, not a willingness to embrace racist rhetoric and policies, drove the white workers of Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin to cast their lot with Mr. Trump. But what about the profound economic insecurity of their black counterparts, a vast majority of whom were unwilling to bet on the promises of a David Duke-endorsed candidate to bring the local factory back? A majority of white voters in Ohio, Michigan and Wisconsin chose Donald Trump (62 percent, 57 percent and 53 percent, respectively), while only 6 percent to 8 percent of their black neighbors did. Accepting the economic anxiety narrative doesn’t only keep us from interrogating the extent to which white citizens of this country are comfortable with — or even energized by — racism. It also erases the contributions of a significant portion of the American work force. My maternal grandfather was among the more than one million black migrants to the Chicago metropolitan area, attracted by the steel mills that give the South Shore of Lake Michigan its distinctive skyline. With a 10th-grade education, he followed his brothers and sisters north from rural Alabama and found a job. After working at Inland Steel for more than 40 years, he retired with a pension, having purchased a neat little bungalow and having sent three of four children to college. In my hometown, Gary, Ind., in the 1960s, you could graduate from high school on Friday and be employed at U.S. Steel by the following Monday. My father, a school administrator and Mississippi transplant who sometimes worked at the mill in the summer, says of the time, “If you didn’t have a job, you didn’t want a job.” This reality dissolved along with the steel industry. U.S. Steel Gary Works employed some 30,000 people in the 1970s; by 2015, it employed around 5,000. The people in Gary, which is more than 80 percent black, and in Detroit, another predominantly black city, where millions of black Southern migrants once thrived making America’s convertibles and Coupe de Villes, are rendered invisible by the country’s racially biased understanding of the Midwest and the working class. The so-called flyover states have long been an avatar for the real America — small towns, country music, conservatism, casseroles and amber waves of grain. Whiteness. It is that mythologized heartland that pundits seem to think will engender empathy, not the black families of Milwaukee; the majority-Latino community of Dodge City, Kan.; the Burmese Chin refugees of Indianapolis; or the strong Arab community of metropolitan Detroit. Black workers in the Midwest are as much victims of the postindustrial age as are white Ohio coal miners. Indeed, they may be feeling a deeper ache. Black workers with high school diplomas make less than white workers with the same education; the black poverty rate is higher; and the median wealth of white households is 10 times that of black households. The political emphasis on aggrieved white men implies that some families deserve economic stability more than others. It is not just the white working class that is suffering — it is the working class, period. And we can’t solve the problem if we refuse to see who those workers actually are. By 2032, according to the Economic Policy Institute, the American working class will be made up mostly of people of color, including black workers. As midterm elections and their accompanying political commentary approach, understanding America and its challenges requires seeing both the working class and black America in their fullness and recognizing where they intersect. It requires acknowledging the experiences of black Midwesterners, even when this means adding unflattering nuance to the stories we’ve long been told about their white neighbors. Because without centuries of economic and cultural contributions from black people in flyover states, America would not be America at all.