As a college-educated twentysomething woman with cool glasses and an affinity for modern art and Ryan Adams, I had the constant experience of strangers assuming I was a liberal. I grew accustomed to the shock and horror that passed over their faces when I revealed that, yes, I am a Republican. Some liberals would explain, usually politely, that I didn’t realize it but I must secretly hate myself and other women. Others presumed it must be a God thing. (I am an atheist.) And nearly every employer has looked at me and asked how I could possibly be a Republican. Loosely translated: “I like you and you are too smart to believe the things you say you do.” In the two decades since I came out as a conservative woman, more and more of us have popped up on your television screens and in your local elections. Voting patterns show we’re hardly the unicorns some still believe we are. And so I’d suggest some caution for midterm watchers breathlessly predicting a blue wave of women in November. According to the Pew Research Center, 56 percent of American women affiliate with or lean Democratic. That means there are 72 million who do not. The idea that Democrats have a lock on the female vote is contradicted by history. Ronald Reagan won the female vote in 1980 against Jimmy Carter and by 16 points in 1984 against Walter Mondale. George H. W. Bush won women against Michael Dukakis in 1988. More recently, a slew of Republican governors have gotten a majority of female voters, including Ohio’s John Kasich, who was the choice of 60 percent of women in 2014. Yet even though the Democratic Party commands just a slight majority of the female vote, it seems that organizations on the left are still capable of surprise when it comes to the very voters whose loyalty they claim. Not even President Trump’s success with women in 2016 — he won only 41 percent of women overall, but a full 61 percent of the votes of white women without college educations — has shaken loose the presumption that women couldn’t possibly support Mr. Trump or Trump-like candidates. That idea is only getting stronger. In early May, Michelle Obama delivered a speech at the United State of Women Summit in Los Angeles in which she expressed a common belief among Democrats: They are entitled to the women’s vote. “In light of this last election, I’m concerned about us as women and how we think,” she said. “What is going on in our heads where we let that happen?” Mrs. Obama continued: “If we as women are still suspicious of one another, if we still have this crazy, crazy bar for each other that we don’t have for men, if we’re not comfortable with the notion that a woman could be our president compared to … what, then we have to have that conversation with ourselves as women.” Think about what it really means to suggest having a “conversation with ourselves as women” when the conversation you are having is about how many women didn’t vote the way you think they should have. When you’ve decided that some women didn’t vote for Hillary Clinton because they were “not comfortable with the notion that a woman could be our president” — instead of not being comfortable with this particular candidate. I didn’t vote for Mr. Trump and I don’t support him now. But I’m not surprised many women did and do. If Democrats want to know why women voted for Mr. Trump — or more important, why they didn’t vote for Mrs. Clinton — they should stop presuming that their gender decides what lever they pull. Salena Zito, co-author of the new book “The Great Revolt: Inside the Populist Coalition Reshaping American Politics,” recently surveyed 2,000 Trump voters in the rust belt. They are the kind of voters, she says, that experts overlooked in 2016 and still don’t get today. One of them is Amy Maurer, a 43-year-old well-educated suburban mom in Kenosha, Wis, who is on the executive board of the Republican Party of Kenosha County. The Clinton campaign aimed ads at Republicans— even women like Ms. Maurer — keying in on Mr. Trump’s misogynistic remarks. “It’s not my favorite thing,” she said when I asked her about the way Mr. Trump has talked about women. “It’s kind of like what I told my mother-in-law when she complained that her heart surgeon wasn’t very friendly: If he’s good at what he does, who cares? He’s not there to be your best friend.” Mr. Trump wasn’t Ms. Maurer’s first choice. But he was good on the issues that mattered most to her. “I always find it funny when I hear the term ‘women’s issues’ because that term equates to birth control and abortion,” she said. “As a small-business owner, taxes and the economy are usually my primary concern when making a choice.” Barbara Lee, an election expert, said that she was wrong in envisioning what role women would play in the 2016 election. Rather than a win for Mrs. Clinton, “it was this epic loss that drove women, first to the streets and then to the campaign trail in numbers previously unimaginable,” she told me. It’s true: There are a record number of women running for office this year. Some 575 are running in House, Senate or governor’s races. In congressional races, 76 percent of these women are running as Democrats. This, not surprisingly, has led to breathless coverage about a “blue wave” led by Democratic women. (Some insist the wave is pink.) In Time, Molly Ball wrote: “If Democrats score big in November’s midterm elections, as most prognosticators believe they will, angry women will be the reason.” In Bustle, in a column titled “How Women Will Change Politics In 2018 (And Why),” Alicia Menendez wrote confidently, “From the Women’s March to the #MeToo Movement, this year women drove monumental change.” In The Washington Post, Helaine Olen wrote about millennial women’s support for Democrats, arguing that it “might change American life and politics going forward.” Robin Marty wrote in Cosmopolitan that with all these women running, “this next cycle could change everything for America.” Everything? There’s little evidence that women, by virtue of their gender alone, govern substantially differently than men. Is Joni Ernst, the hog-castrating Republican senator from Iowa who supported missile strikes in Syria, opposed Mr. Trump’s tariffs on China and supported Gina Haspel’s C.I.A. nomination, making discernibly different decisions from her male counterparts? Or for that matter was Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, standing up for women any better than a man would have when she defended her colleague, Representative John Conyers, against sexual harassment accusations because he was “an icon”? There’s no shortage of studies showing that women are more likely to introduce bills that benefit women — on paid leave or domestic violence, for example — or that show women get more bills passed than their male counterparts. But is this volume inherently good? I’m not convinced that getting more laws on the books is the metric we should use to judge good governance. That more women are getting involved in politics — either by running for office, managing campaigns or voting — is a great thing. But the belief that female intensity in 2018 guarantees a blue wave is unlikely to bear out as decisively as some think. Especially not if women like Amy Maurer are any indication. When I asked her if she regretted her vote for Mr. Trump, she replied: “Are you kidding? Business is booming, profit-sharing is up, we can give raises this year while also reinvesting in our business by purchasing some large machinery. The economy is doing great. We’re definitely headed in the right direction.” Women may be having different conversations this year, but I’m not sure we’ll be making different decisions at the ballot box.