“Where’s the mother?” This is a question I’m often asked when I’m out with my son. I’m a gay dad. A New York gay dad with tattoos and pink hair. Around the world, in markets, restaurants and airports, strangers see our unconventional family and ask us about the seemingly missing mom. This question, although understandable, used to infuriate me. It keeps coming, though, so I decided to search for a perfect reply. It took me back to the beginning of my son’s life. I was a reluctant parent. I can be selfish, and impatient, and I wondered whether two men could raise a baby by themselves. But I’d married a man with a strong desire to be a dad and I didn’t want insecurity to stand in the way of possibility, so we signed up with an adoption agency. One fast month after our file became active we received a phone call. It was the phone call. A young woman in an old factory town in Pennsylvania had read our profile, approved of our tattoos and was certain we were the right parents for the 7-month-old human growing in her womb. We set a date for us to all meet, but just two days before we were to get together my husband got another phone call. The mom-to-be was bleeding and in a car on her way to the hospital. Soon we were on our way there, too. It was on a Feb. 4, a day after my husband’s birthday, one day after the psychic reading I’d given him divined that we’d experience trauma involving a mother. The headlights of our rental car beamed into a blizzard. We learned that the baby had been delivered by emergency C-section. He was eight weeks early. We called our moms and sisters, who all urged us to just keep driving. I wanted to turn back. I now know that my husband did too, but we didn’t tell each other this. We just kept driving through the night into the storm. Under yellowish hospital lights, the birth mom lay propped up and connected to monitors. She had as many tattoos as I do. She didn’t look us in the eye, but I noticed her eyes: deep brown, almond shaped, tiny sparks. “You’re welcome,” she said. We’d later understand that she was afraid we wouldn’t want the baby, that we would no longer see him as perfect. In the neonatal intensive care unit, mechanical beeps tracked heartbeats, and alarms signaled that lungs had stopped breathing. Nurses rushed to revive little lives. In the middle of the room, illuminated by bright light, in a plexiglass case with tubes and wires, was a tiny human being. He was the color of beet juice, the size of a sweet potato. His little body was twitching. This was our son. We walked over to the case. I felt that gripping sensation when you need to sob but hold it in. A nurse in pink scrubs approached us and smiled. “Congratulations,” she said. “Go wash your hands.” My chest felt constricted. “Why’s he shaking?” I asked. The nurse’s eyes lit up as she explained. “That’s a special thing. It’s how much he wants to be here. The spasms are the body fighting to survive. We call it life force.” When this brand-new human looked up at us, deep eyes, almond shaped, sparks, the tightness in my chest released. I sensed a new purpose. The nurse tapped my shoulder. “He needs your help,” she told me. “You need to wash your hands.” Premature infants needs their parents to rip off their shirts and hold them to their chests so they can cleave to the human world. This technique regulates the heartbeat, synchronizes the breathing and should be done, we were told, for hours each day. For the next 38 days, we moved to York, Pa., to spend those hours with the baby we hoped would be our son. There was a 30-day window where the birth mom could change her mind. Our birth mom offered precarious assurance. “I can’t ever hold the baby,” she said. “If I do, you won’t be taking him home.” We were going to have to commit to saving the baby even if it meant we’d be saying goodbye in the end. Over the following weeks, snow fell in heavy drifts and the boy in the incubator grew. We lived on coffee, Taco Bell and discounted riesling. And we became proficient at taking care of an infant hooked up to wires and monitors. Visits from the birth family became complicated because the healthier the child became and the closer we were to taking him home to our life, in New York, the sooner he’d be gone from theirs. We walked in one morning and found the plexiglass case empty. We scanned the room and spotted the birth mom in a circle of sunlight coming through the window. She turned around. She was holding the baby. I remembered her words, and fear lit a deep rage inside me: This was my baby. I’d saved his life. I saw in her eyes a mirror of my exact same rage: This was her baby. She’d given him life. In that moment, we all loved this baby as parents. A moment that I now see as this young woman’s ultimate act of motherhood. She cried, and shared with us her dream for the future of this boy. We listened and promised to make our greatest effort toward that future. Then the three of us made a permanent contract using tattoos, an art form we all shared. I’m reminded of this contract every time my son points out the four 4s on my arm that he knows represent the time and day of his birth. The day before our son was discharged a woman we’d never met approached us in the hospital lobby. We recognized her deep brown, almond-shaped eyes. She said she just wanted to see us, but my husband knew she needed something more. Moments later, the mother of our birth mother was holding her grandson. She had to know the hands he’d be in even though it also meant saying a painful goodbye. We headed home with our son, who was no longer hooked up to life support. His well-being was in our hands. We brought with us a newfound respect and a profound glimpse into what it takes to be a mother. Our son is now 3, and I’ve discovered that the roles of parenthood don’t fall into neat categories. I still get asked, “Where’s the mom?” but I’ve found my answer. “The mother’s right here,” I say. “You might not see her, but she’s here.”