KARACHI, Pakistan — When I was a child, my father earned a Ph.D in international relations at the University of Virginia, and I grew up surrounded by his books and papers everywhere in our small apartment overlooking the mountains surrounding Charlottesville. After he completed his studies, writing his thesis on international arms transfers to Iran, we moved back to Pakistan in 1977. My dad had already shipped his books home, so he could display them proudly on his bookshelves like hallowed objects. By the time I turned 8, I was reading at an eighth-grade level, and I had made my way through all the age-appropriate books in my elementary school library. So I spent many hours amusing myself by trying to read my father’s hardback copies of “The Iliad” and “The Odyssey” and pretending I knew exactly what Homer was trying to say. My father had hoped to use his doctorate in some way in Pakistan, either teaching at a university or in an advisory position at a government council or think tank. But the family business was agriculture, so between weekly trips to our family-owned farm in rural Sindh, he did his best to keep up with what was happening in the world in those pre-internet, pre-satellite television days. Pakistan was under the dictatorship of Gen. Muhammad Zia ul-Haq, and while we weren’t completely isolated from the world, good sources of international news were hard to find. English news ran twice a day on the state-owned television — 15 minutes in the afternoon, a half-hour at night. Once a week, my dad drove downtown to the Holiday Inn — the only hotel in town with a bookstore — to buy The International Herald Tribune, Time, Newsweek and academic journals like Foreign Affairs. If I was with him, he’d buy me a Mad magazine, which I found unbelievably racy and exciting. Soon the gaptoothed Alfred E. Neuman felt like a long-lost cousin we’d left behind in America. Among my father’s serious-looking (and seriously boring) books on Voltaire, Thomas Jefferson and Middle East politics, there was a slim paperback. Its cover provoked my 8-year-old’s curiosity: a man wearing a gray suit and heavy 1960s-style glasses stood waist deep in the waters of the Reflecting Pool in front of the Lincoln Memorial. In his hands he clutched a file on which the words TOP SECRET were handwritten in big black letters. The book was “Washington Is Leaking,” by the satirical columnist Art Buchwald. I had no idea who Art Buchwald was, nor what satire was. But I’d been to the Lincoln Memorial. I’d also grown up hearing people talk about “Washington” in the same hushed tones as they said “Watergate.” Maybe this pool the man was standing in was the “Watergate” that everyone was talking about? I was born a month after the 1972 Watergate break-in, and we were still in the United States when President Richard M. Nixon finally resigned in 1974. The repercussions of that political earthquake continued for years, and it was a frequent topic of discussion among my father’s graduate student friends and professors. Even at 8, I knew that Washington and Watergate were hot stuff. The book’s cover promised me “A New Tidal Wave of Merriment” and, quoting Publishers Weekly, that it was “Loaded With Laughs.” But when I gingerly tried to read some of the columns in the book, I couldn’t understand why I wasn’t laughing. Henry Kissinger was telling his wife, Nancy, that he was tired of playing Superman and only wanted to stay home and play dominoes. Huh? My father talked about Mr. Kissinger all the time; he was someone important, I knew, but who? What were the Pentagon Papers? What was the difference between Peking duck and San Clemente Crow? A domino theory of geopolitics was beyond imagination. It still is. Yet even as I knew I wasn’t getting it, I knew there was something there to get. A kind of humor that adults appreciated, but children couldn’t. I’d seen my father reading from the book to my mother, both of them guffawing at the sentences. I was intrigued by the idea of “hunting lodges and other places of ill repute.” The book was telling me about a bigger world with all sorts of secrets and stories that had something glamorous, something seedy, something compelling and shameful all at the same time. And the way it was being said, in a sly, backward way, hinted at a code you’d use to decipher the words and suddenly you’d be in on the secret, too. In the mid-1980s, Pakistan’s biggest English-language newspaper, Dawn, started to run Art Buchwald’s syndicated columns once a week. My father would snatch them up first thing in the morning; I got the newspaper, rumpled and creased, when I came home from school in the afternoon. By the time I finished high school in 1989, I knew that Mr. Buchwald was one in a long tradition of American humorists, like Mark Twain, H.L. Mencken and others who used their wit to poke holes in the egos of the rich and powerful. Pakistani satirists had to tread more carefully. Arrests of writers and journalists were frequent. Satire was best known in a television program called “Fifty Fifty,” with a talented group of comedic actors who made smart commentary on social and political issues while daringly dodging the state censors. Political cartoonists like Feica used their pens and paper instead of words, but even they had to be wary of censure. How they would have loved the security of the First Amendment, with its assurance that the government couldn’t punish them for their pointed humor. There was one joke I still remember from “Washington Is Leaking,” in a column titled, “You’ve Flown a Long Way, Baby.” It goes like this: “Everyone has his own favorite airline story from years gone by. My favorite took place in the late forties when I was flying from Belgrade to Zagreb in Yugoslavia. We were sitting on a DC-3 when one pilot got on board. There was no stewardess. The plane took off, and in a half-hour the one pilot of the plane came back to the cabin and started serving coffee and candy sourballs. We all gasped when we saw him walk out of the cockpit. The pilot grinned and said: ‘What’s the matter? You people have never heard of automatic pilot’?” Relieved to finally find something clearly funny, I howled with laughter. Then I told my father how much I loved Art Buchwald. My father looked at me as if this was a perfectly normal thing for an 8-year-old to say and responded, “You’re going to be a writer yourself one day.”