Books saved my life. Those four words seem absurd. And yet I believe them to be true as much as or more than I believe anything else that I can’t prove. In the early summer of 2005, removed from my participation in the fiasco that was the war in Iraq, I took my unspent pay and plunked it down for a year’s rent on a small apartment across from the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts in Richmond. I was living without intention then, and though that may sound like some self-help mantra, what I mean is that I was utterly adrift and more or less uninterested in either sailing or getting back to shore. My needs were few and simple. The door locked. The shades came down. And a 7-Eleven two blocks away sold cold beer from morning to midnight. Certainly the war was one of the things I wanted to shut the door against, but the fact that the whole world got shut out along with it felt like a fortuitous turn of events. Whether my distress was the result of brain chemistry or some malformed gene or what I saw in Iraq or entirely brought on by my own actions, it was real enough that I was willing to do almost anything to make it stop. I was fairly successful in that effort for a while. The side effects of prescribing yourself a case of Milwaukee’s Best every day are unpleasant, but if the goal is not to feel at all, the efficacy of the dose is unparalleled. I had been drinking to excess with some regularity since I was 14. I would spend nearly six months of 2005 drunk. The only human contact I had were the brief words I exchanged with the cashier as she rang up two 12 packs, two big bite hot dogs and two packs of smokes. That was my life, and I began to wonder if it deserved the name. The ultimate problem I encountered was that my mind and heart resisted my attempts to drown them. A temporary solution, especially one that only superficially addressed how impossible I found being to be, was no longer sufficient. I began to feel that what seemed to be a permanent problem called for a permanent solution. Throughout that summer and into the fall, floating in a pool of cheap beer, just below the surface of my semiconsciousness, was the constant thought: Maybe I won’t wake up this time. I doubt much needs to be said about the kind of despair that would make such an idea a source of comfort, despair that came not from accepting that things were as bad as they were going to get but, worse, that they might go on like that forever. The next step felt both logical and inevitable. And yet I’m here writing this almost 13 years later, despite the fact that in the perpetual semidarkness of that Richmond apartment, I wanted to not be, wanted to not be with an intensity that very few desires in my subsequent life have equaled. I wrote that books saved my life, and while I believe this to be true, I’m not exactly sure how they did that. If I knew what variable was at work that withdrew suicide from my list of options, I would dedicate my life to spreading that knowledge. But I don’t have that information. What I have instead is correlation and speculation. As I drifted further and further into my quarantined stupor, my attempts to read anything became ridiculous, often resulting in a book held diagonally in a trembling hand, examined with one eye squinted and the other shut, until I eventually added the reading of books to the many other higher order activities that had once separated me from the rest of the nonhuman animal kingdom and that I could no longer reliably perform. But one day, for some reason, I picked up “The Collected Poems of Dylan Thomas” and found that the following oft-quoted lines of Thomas’s provided me with a moment of, for lack of a better word, grace: “These poems, with all their crudities, doubts, and confusions, are written for the love of Man and in praise of God, and I’d be a damn’ fool if they weren’t.” You may think that by using the word “grace” and including a quotation about praising God, I’m claiming that something miraculous happened or trying to smuggle in a religious answer to the universal difficulty of being a person. No. What spoke to me were the references to “crudities, doubts, and confusions,” for nothing came as close to characterizing what my life had become as those three words. I was, I thought, crudity, doubt and confusion personified. For the first time in a long while I recognized myself in another, and somehow that simple tether allowed me to slowly pull myself away from one of the most terrifying beliefs common to the kind of ailment I’m describing: that one is utterly alone, uniquely so, and that this condition is permanent. I wish I could say that at that moment I took up my bed and walked, but I didn’t. I needed the help of real-life human beings over a significant period before I got better, and staying better requires diligence and attention even now. But over the following months, the tether to the world outside my mind was made stronger by other books, until I came to the belief that the whole range of human experience, including suffering and pain, when witnessed or shared, could be transformed into a kind of transcendent awe. In a strange way, the same impulse that led me toward self-destruction — the desire to erase the self — was still at work in my life. What changed was that I started to see immersion in a book as a reliable alternative to drink or death. I have sometimes heard art described as anything created without discernible utility, but my experience tells me otherwise. I have found books to be profoundly and incomparably useful in my life, for they helped me hold on to it.