Political commentators and strategists write with some awe of President Trump’s outrageous, gutsy strategy of ginning up his base with one more attack on black athletes, one more crackdown on Central American mothers and children on the Mexican border, one more assault on Obamacare, one more tariff on imports. They think Mr. Trump’s drumbeat is intensifying loyalty and fervor among Republican partisans and that the Republican Party we used to know is “taking a nap somewhere,” as John Boehner, the former speaker of the House, put it. Much more worrisome for those of us who think the country needs a blue wave in 2018 is the way Mr. Trump’s strategy appears to be raising his job approval ratings and closing the enthusiasm gap with Democrats that has been a critical element in the handful of off-year elections since 2016. Any wave election worth its salt — like the 1974 Watergate cleansing, the 1994 Gingrich revolution or the 2010 Tea Party shellacking — is produced by the elevated energy and enthusiasm of one party and the demoralization and fracturing of the other. Well, Mr. Trump’s base strategy is producing precisely that kind of enthusiasm gap in the polls I am conducting for Democracy Corps and its partners, the Women’s Voices Women Vote Action Fund and the American Federation of Teachers. Mr. Trump’s strategy is to continue to build support with the Tea Party supporters and evangelicals who make up a plurality of those who identify as Republicans, but they are by no means the whole of the party. And Mr. Trump shows as much interest in winning over those less enthusiastic Republicans as he does in winning independents and Democrats — which is to say, not much. Mr. Trump’s base strategy brands the Republican Party as sexist, racist, xenophobic and anti-immigrant, which magnifies the anti-Trump reaction among Democrats. But it also leaves a tenth who are conservative Catholics and a fifth who are nonreligious conservatives more tentative in their support of the Republican Party — and it pushes away the quarter of Republicans who remain ideologically moderate. The harder the president bangs these drums, the more Democrats become enraged and a segment of Republicans gets demoralized. The more he trashes and defeats his Republican opponents in primaries, the more these voters may contemplate different political options. [Receive arguments and opinions on the pressing social issues and hidden stories around the World Cup right in your inbox. Sign up for Offsides.] Mr. Trump also based his presidential candidacy first on gathering Tea Party support and then on forming an alliance with evangelicals and other religious conservatives. This alliance represented a clear majority among primary voters. The Republican establishment, however, thought that Mr. Trump would fade and also underestimated both the strength of his Tea Party base and his ability to win over evangelicals. But as a “birther,” Mr. Trump showed that he was willing to poke his finger in the eye of the elite and deny the legitimacy of the first African-American president — and crucially it was the visceral hatred of President Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton he displayed that made his determination to repeal Obamacare and to build a wall along the southern border seem credible to his supporters. This came together with his disdain for the elite’s global trading regime and trade agreements that harmed his white working class base particularly. And then President Trump surprised nearly all political analysts with his decision to govern as a militant Tea Party and evangelical conservative and to make this the heart of his strategy for the midterm elections. Each provocation and each dog whistle — if we can even call them that anymore — make Democrats even more determined to vote and to register their rejection of Mr. Trump’s remade Republican Party. In our polling of registered voters nationally and in the Senate battleground states, a remarkable 79 percent of Democrats strongly disapprove of Mr. Trump, a number that rose to 87 percent in a survey completed last week. Mr. Trump is making Democratic base voters even angrier than you might expect. But each provocation also produces a reaction in the non-Trump remnant of the Republican Party, and that is the political reaction most observers are missing. Moderate Republicans are much more likely than the rest of the party to be college graduates, to favor abortion rights, to be relaxed about gay marriage and Planned Parenthood, and to believe that climate change is a human-created problem. They were feeling homeless in the Republican Party even before Mr. Trump’s triumph. The Catholic and nonreligious conservatives base may not be as animated as Mr. Trump’s base is by attacks on the Republican establishment, free trade and Nafta. They are less worried about the Affordable Care Act and would amend rather than overturn it. And they are more like Republicans in the past who accepted the welfare state and the social safety net that earlier generations had bequeathed to them. Mr. Trump’s ever more aggressive vision pushes his “strong” job approval to an impressive 71 percent with the Tea Party and to 62 percent with evangelicals, but that does not quite match the enthusiastic, anti-Trump reaction among all types of Democrat. Mr. Trump’s red meat strategy gets a decidedly less enthusiastic response with Catholic and nonreligious conservatives: Less than half of them strongly approve of Mr. Trump’s performance. The enthusiasm gap between the Tea Party and moderate Republicans stands at a stunning 40 points: 71 percent of Tea Party supporters strongly approve of Mr. Trump, compared with 31 percent of moderates. As of now, those muted reactions to Mr. Trump among these other Republicans are translating into reduced interest in the elections and a potentially lower turnout in November. More than half of evangelical and Tea Party Republicans now score at the highest point on the 10-rung electoral interest ladder. That level of engagement translates to a potential turnout level just a few points higher than for Democrats. But just under 40 percent of Catholics and nonreligious conservatives and 32 percent of moderates score that high, which portends very uneven participation in November. These numbers reflect genuine demoralization that can break against the Trump strategy. Some brave Republicans, skeptical of Mr. Trump and his presidency, have lost or underperformed in Republican primaries in recent weeks. It is not much solace for Republican representatives like Mark Sanford of South Carolina, who lost with 46 percent of the vote or for Martha Roby, a Republican congresswoman in Alabama, who got 39 percent and faces a runoff, but the size of their vote in these Southern states is a plausible measure of the spirit of Republicanism that lies outside Mr. Trump’s vision for the party. Mr. Trump’s base strategy has allowed him to take over the Republican Party and to marginalize and defeat those who will not get with the program, but it has also unified Democrats around their values and created an opportunity for anti-Trump Americans to engage with these Republican voters, even (and especially) if Mr. Trump will not. It may be as straightforward as reminding them why the Trumpified Republican Party needs to be repudiated in November. They may be looking for a genuinely conservative party. But these voters may also be open to voting for Democrats. After all, a quarter of moderates did defect from Mr. Trump in 2016, and they might be ready to vote for candidates who respect women, who are angry about the N.R.A. and school shootings, who believe climate change is real and who want a government that works for the middle class at least as hard as it does for the privileged. It may seem as if Mr. Trump has taken over the Republican Party completely, but it is not too late for all of us to benefit from the struggle to deny him total control.