This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. First, I’ve spent some time recently trying to figure out just how much bigger big business in the United States has become. It turned out to be a more difficult project than I expected — which also made it more interesting. Given the federal judge’s decision last week to allow the AT&T-Time Warner merger, I thought this was a good week to write about the project. In my column today, you’ll find two charts that show what’s happened over the last quarter-century. The short version: Small businesses in the United States used to employ more people combined than big businesses. That’s no longer the case, and it’s a major reason why income growth has been so slow for most families and inequality has soared. Separating families. The Trump administration has offered three different explanations for the new policy that separates children from their parents at the border. The explanations are contradictory, as Fordham Law School’s Jed Shugerman noted on Twitter. Each one is also deeply problematic on its own. Explanation #1: Jeff Sessions, the attorney general, has justified the policy based on the biblical command to “obey the laws of the government.” As Slate’s Ruth Graham notes, the same Bible passage has been used to justify slavery, Nazi appeasement and South African apartheid. Explanation #2. According to President Trump, he has no choice but to separate families, based on current law. And the policy is the Democrats’ fault, because they refuse to negotiate with Republicans on immigration policy. But his own insistence that Democrats agree to finance a border wall — in exchange for ending family separation — undercuts that position, as The Washington Post’s Jennifer Rubin points out. “Claiming Democrats are responsible for child separation obviously isn’t true if he refuses to change the policy without concessions,” she writes. Explanation #3. You can usually rely on Trump to provide the most factually challenging claims among anyone in Washington. Not this time. “We do not have a policy of separating families at the border. Period,” Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, claimed this weekend. Ted Lieu, the California congressman, had an appropriate response on Twitter: “Dear @SecNielsen: You are lying. Period. “How do we know you are lying Sec Nielsen? Because Stephen Miller pushed for the policy change & AG Sessions gleefully announced it. “Also, 2000 kids didn’t voluntarily decide to leave their parents. You forced the separation. Get it?”