My stepfather’s voice came loud and clear over the whir of the wood splitter he was working 50 feet away. “What in the hell is all that wailing?” Only a moment before, I’d run into a rock with my bike and been tossed to the ground. I let out a shriek as I landed on the sharp gravel of the driveway. Splayed out on the stones now, I could hear the irritation in his voice. It was a Saturday; he had wood to stack for the long Northern New York winter ahead. He flipped the switch on the wood splitter and it went quiet. I glanced up and saw him still standing by the wood pile with one fist on his hip, head tilted, impatiently awaiting my response. Warm blood flowed from the gash on my left knee. “I fell off my bike,” I yelled back, trying to catch my breath between sobs. “Jesus. You’d think someone died, screaming like that,” he said, shaking his head. He flipped the splitter back on. “Get up. You’re fine.” I wasn’t fine. I was an 8-year-old girl, scared and bleeding on the ground. I should have gotten stitches that day; instead I got scolded. My mother and stepfather are blue-collar, no-nonsense forces of nature — hardworking, blunt and unbending. Maybe they came into the world that way, or perhaps the punishing economy and harsh weather of our forgotten rural town had worn away their sense of empathy over the years. I admire their strength, but I could never match it no matter how hard I tried. My stepfather built our house with his own hands and often worked construction jobs even in the winter when temperatures could dip below freezing, and my mother juggled multiple factory jobs, standing on concrete floors for long hours in order to put food on the table and presents under the Christmas tree for our family of eight. I knew they loved me. But I don’t think they always liked me. While I inherited their strong work ethic, I’m a far cry from their type of tough. I am naturally empathetic, optimistic and sensitive. Even as a child, I was acutely attuned to other people’s emotions. I was too sensitive, too curious and too concerned for the sort of people who prefer not to feel anything at all. Dismissing pain was commonplace in our house, and weakness wasn’t welcome. When my mother and stepfather said, “Oh, you poor baby,” they weren’t acknowledging my pain or expressing empathy. They meant: “Too bad. Toughen up.” You can silence a child with those words, but you can’t cure a neurological disease with them. I’ve tried. As an adult, I discovered that I have sporadic hemiplegic migraines, a rare and chronic neurological condition with terrifying and sometimes paralyzing symptoms that mimic a stroke. It took me many years to acknowledge S.H.M. and seek proper medical care. When you’re repeatedly taught your pain isn’t real, sometimes you forget how to feel. And it’s impossible to prevent or treat something if you don’t even accept its existence. I was in the car with a friend the first time debilitating S.H.M. symptoms surfaced. By that time, I’d become so accustomed to disregarding pain in any form, I insisted I was all right, even as visual auras blocked my sight and tingling numbness overwhelmed my face, lips, tongue and the left side of my body. “Get up. You’re fine,” I told myself, as electric jolts pulsed through my brain. “Too bad. Toughen up,” I admonished, while orbs bobbed in front of my eyes. I tried. Despite the visual disturbances, pulsating headache and weakness, I carried on. My friend and I dropped by the department of motor vehicles to renew my license and cracked jokes about how I’d never forget this license photo — taken when I couldn’t even see the camera through the pseudo-psychedelic dance in front of my face. It was only when I picked up a magazine and couldn’t grasp the meaning of the simple words written on the cover that I finally realized something was very wrong. My brain was cloaked in an impenetrable fog. I could not make out the shape of my own hands in front of me. I tried to form a short sentence, but couldn’t recall a single word, or move my mouth to speak. No amount of “tough” was going to conquer this. I ended up in the emergency room that day. After monitoring me and pumping me full of medicine to abort the S.H.M. attack, the doctor delivered a diagnosis and a warning. “You have hemiplegic migraines,” he told me. “You need to slow down.” There it was, on official hospital letterhead: I wasn’t fine. This time, there was no one to dismiss my pain. The doctor had given it a name. He didn’t tell me to suck it up. He’d advised me to slow down. Even my mother — the hardworking woman who taught me much of what I know about being tough — echoed his concerns. Her advice was no longer “Too bad. Toughen up.” Instead she begged me repeatedly to slow down, rest often, and take care. I didn’t listen. A lifetime of playing “I’m fine” couldn’t be undone in one doctor’s visit. It would take several more years, more attacks and more trips to the emergency room to convince me that this was not something I could tough my way out of. S.H.M. requires an entirely antipodal approach. There is no cure and treatment options are debatable at best (some are arguably riskier than suffering through an attack). The only real hope I have is prevention and avoidance of triggers, which requires sufficient rest and low stress. Rather than “Get up, you’re fine,” it’s “Lie down, you’re exhausted.” Instead of “Toughen up,” it’s “Take a break.” It was only recently — when S.H.M. came thundering in to disrupt an interview I was conducting near the Syrian border in Jordan — I realized how deep-seated and dangerous my need to appear just fine and tough enough really was. As I sat scribbling illegible quotations in my notebook while an attack overtook my eyes, face and the left side of my body, I thought, “This might be the last interview — the last thing — I’ll ever do.” S.H.M. is an electrical storm in the brain, and — given the agonizing power of the electric pulses I was experiencing that day — I couldn’t be sure whether this one would cause permanent damage or put the lights out completely. I survived that attack, but while my body recovered in the foggy days that followed, I realized it was time to let go of this need to appear tough enough — or risk more serious physical consequences. Since that childhood day when I lay splayed on the stones in my driveway, I’d spent a lifetime believing that my pain wasn’t real, despite concrete evidence and a doctor’s diagnosis. Now, it was clear that acceptance of my pain was the only way I could ever hope to keep the symptoms of S.H.M. at bay. When we teach people to deny their pain, we deny them the acceptance required to address what’s causing it. And that can have dangerous psychological and physical implications. You can’t treat something you don’t allow others, or yourself, to see. As Americans, we live in a culture of “toughness” rather than one of empathy, one that values a stoic exterior no matter what sort of pain may be attacking the body or mind. And it’s not just about my medical condition; it’s practically universal. In trying to make sense in recent days of the apparent suicides of Kate Spade and Anthony Bourdain — two intrepid, wildly successful and outwardly high-spirited people — it seems a new segment of the public has also begun to think about the deadly costs of “toughing it out” and putting on the show we think others want to see. We don’t need to toughen up. What we need now is to take care — of ourselves, our health and one another.