We take it for granted that President Trump says demonstrably false things on any number of topics. That is itself alarming. But gross factual mischaracterizations have started to trickle down to the lawyers who serve at the president’s pleasure: At oral argument in the Supreme Court, for example, the solicitor general declared that the president had made it crystal clear that he would never follow through on his campaign promise to ban Muslims. In fact, the president never said any such thing. What if Mr. Trump, and increasingly his Department of Justice, made it routine to take the same black-is-white, up-is-down approach toward the law as they take with the facts? Mr. Trump is making a mockery of law in the appalling policy of forcibly separating families at the border. In the case, Ms. L v. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the president has made the up-is-down claim that a Democratic law — the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act, in conjunction with the Homeland Security Act and statutes criminalizing illegal entry — requires him to separate families to protect the children. The administration’s legal mumbo-jumbo attempts to use laws that are meant to protect vulnerable children as a screen to terrorize them and to deter immigrants from coming to the United States border. The laws that Mr. Trump’s Justice Department cites — which apply to unaccompanied children, not children with parents — require no such thing. Instead, the Homeland Security law, a statute governing the Office of Refugee Resettlement, gives custody of unaccompanied minors to that department, and very clearly not to the Department of Homeland Security, to address the challenges that children without parents face in the immigration system. The statute that addresses child trafficking — part of the Trafficking Victims law — is designed to reduce the risk that children who are alone will fall victim to human trafficking. The administration is arguing that the laws do the opposite — that they make children more vulnerable to human trafficking and place children at greater risk in the immigration system — and so require the D.H.S. to separate families that would otherwise be together. The statutes criminalizing illegal entry do not require imprisonment, which would force family separation, rather than civil fines, or detention and deportation, which would not. This is a specious use of law: It inverts the laws governing child immigration and uses them to exacerbate the very evil the law was designed to address. Or take the Trump administration’s brief in Texas v. United States, the latest challenge to the Affordable Care Act. In this case, 20 states argue that the core of Obamacare will soon be unconstitutional. The normal practice of the Justice Department is to defend laws passed by Congress and signed by the president. But this one was signed by President Barack Obama, and this brief takes up the challengers’ argument against the A.C.A. Before the Department of Justice filed the brief, three career attorneys gave notice of their withdrawal from the entire case — a rare move, and a glimpse of just how wild the department’s arguments would be. Its brief made two arguments. One is that the recent Republican tax bill, rather than eliminating the individual mandate, actually made the mandate more onerous by imposing on individuals a legal obligation to purchase health insurance. The tax bill in fact set to $0 — zero dollars — the penalty for not purchasing insurance. It did not otherwise impose any kind of legal duty on people to buy insurance. Indeed, the president and his congressional supporters repeatedly cheered the law’s repeal of the mandate; they, and the Congressional Budget Office, did not understand the bill to be strengthening it. The department’s second argument is even more outlandish than its first. It relies on a legal doctrine known as severability, under which courts decide whether the invalidation of one statutory provision requires the court to invalidate related ones. The Justice Department claims that the tax bill’s “super mandate” is unconstitutional (something that no one in Congress or the presidency noticed when they enacted the bill) and that courts must invalidate other rules along with it. In particular, the Justice Department insists that two popular features of the Affordable Care Act must go, too. The first is the guaranteed issue provision, which prohibits insurers from charging more to people who have cancer, or any pre-existing condition, than to whose who do not. The second is the community rating provision, which prohibits insurers from refusing to sell a policy to someone who can pay the policy’s listed price. It is hard to overstate just how down-is-up this argument is. Courts determine whether to invalidate other provisions in a law based on their assessment of Congress’s intent and whether Congress would have wanted other provisions to go into effect if one provision did not. The department’s argument is that without the mandate, Congress would not have wanted the guaranteed-issue and community-rating provisions. But we know the opposite is true: Congress kept the guaranteed-issue and community-rating provisions even after it chose to deprive the mandate of any force or effect in the tax bill. Mr. Trump’s Justice Department is thus lying about what the tax bill did, and about Congress’s intent in passing it. And the department, like the president himself, is doing so as part of a transparent effort to rid the country of a law that Mr. Trump and his Republican caucus do not like but could not repeal through normal channels. Lawyers, including at the Department of Justice, sometimes make aggressive arguments. But there is a difference between aggressive and preposterous, and between truths and untruths. The rule of law depends on these distinctions — to hold governments officials to the law, we need to be able to acknowledge what the law says. And in order to hold government officials accountable for their choices, we need to be able to acknowledge what the law does not say. That is what makes the Trump administration’s legal claims so dangerous: The administration is simultaneously insisting that it must enforce a law that does not exist, but is refusing to defend a law that actually does exist, and jeopardizing the law in the process. The Trump administration is gambling that its arguments on the A.C.A. might succeed. They probably will, at least before some Republican-appointed judges in some courts. More likely, the administration will not persuade the current Supreme Court with these arguments. But it may be playing a long game that shifts expectations about legal arguments, and what falls within the bounds of reasonable — to make the law seem as manipulable, and therefore as easy to write off, as the facts. This is a test for the courts. The executive and legislative branches have in too many ways capitulated to the president’s post-factual world. Will the legal system allow a post-legal one as well?