BOGOTÁ, Colombia — The victory of Iván Duque in the Colombian presidential race on Sunday is the result of a series of unfortunate ideological exports from the United States. Mr. Duque, who clearly paid attention to the antics of the Republican Party while living in Washington, D.C., won on a platform of trickle-down economics and so-called family values. While catering to the social values of conservative voters has been a common strategy in Colombia, appealing to trickle-down economics has not. Mr. Duque’s success in a country whose Constitution enshrines the right to universal health care, education and a progressive taxation system should be a warning to progressives and advocates for the poor across the region, as well as to academic economists, who may soon find themselves fighting the same kind of right-wing economic populism that has until now been regarded as an American oddity. The president-elect claimed that the Colombian government was bloated and that taxation levels were extremely high. Americans are used to hearing this canard when discussing their own tax system, and those who bother to look up the statistics know this to be false: Whereas average tax revenues in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries are around 34 percent of the gross domestic product, in the United States they hover around 26 percent. It is downright alarming, then, that the same claim could be successfully made in a country like Colombia, where tax revenues are a modest 20 percent of a much smaller GDP, well below O.E.C.D. and Latin American averages. Mr. Duque adopted the Republican rhetoric according to which “job creators” are treated unfairly, and he campaigned for tax reductions for these “creadores de empleo.” The fact of the matter, however, is that the rich receive preferential treatment, and even more so in Colombia than in the United States. In 2010 — the latest year for which data in Colombia are available — the effective tax rate paid by the top 1 percent of income earners was 11.5 percent, a bargain compared with the 23 percent paid by the top 1 percent in the United States during that same year. The new president has called for national unity, and Colombians should give him the benefit of the doubt. While it may be hard for him to completely escape the influence of former president Álvaro Uribe, whose support was instrumental in his election since he was mostly unknown to the public a year ago, he may move to the center nonetheless. Some of his key allies in Congress, such as the Liberal Party, may block his intended changes to the Constitution to alter presidential term limits, weaken the judiciary or alter significant aspects of the peace deal, which is what most center-left voters fear Uribe wants him to do. However, his successful adaptation of trickle-down economics to Colombian — and, indeed, Latin American — politics should remain a cause for concern. Colombia endures more inequality than most other countries in the world, and its economy is beholden to the interests of local oligopolies that control the financial sector and other key industries. These industries, like many in the United States, successfully produce studies and reports casting economic facts in a light that’s convenient to their own interests, but not often to the public at large. Unlike in the United States, however, misinformation about basic economic facts is rarely met by vigorous opposition from citizen organizations at the intersection of academia and public policy. The Observatorio Fiscal, an organization I lead at Universidad Javeriana in Bogotá, is trying to fill this gap by modeling itself after American organizations like the Tax Policy Center and the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. But our task is enormous and we cannot do it alone. More like-minded organizations are needed to offer the public perspectives on economic and policy issues that benefit the average citizen, not just those who can pay their way into positions of influence and power. Crucially, the charitable giving culture that supports these initiatives and that Americans seem to take for granted is nearly absent from Colombia, perhaps because our decades-long war has torn apart the social fabric. Colombians who believe in the social democratic principles of the country’s Constitution need to come together to defend them, with their voices as well as with their wallets. Americans can help too. At a time when populism and misinformation are a global threat to democracy and equal opportunity, we are all in this together.