The legal and policy battles over the Affordable Care Act have divided the nation along predictable partisan lines. As legal academics, we were on opposite sides when the Supreme Court considered constitutional challenges to the so-called individual mandate and again when the court considered whether tax credits would be available in federally created health insurance exchanges. The latest A.C.A. challenge, however, has brought us together — an unholy alliance that conveys an enormous amount about the weakness and dangerousness of the newest legal challenge to a statute that continues to be a political and legal flash point. This year, 20 states filed a lawsuit against the A.C.A. alleging that the individual insurance-purchase mandate is no longer constitutional because Congress, in the 2017 tax reform law, eliminated the tax penalty that enforced the mandate. The Supreme Court held in 2012 that the penalty was key to the mandate’s legality as an exercise of Congress’s taxing power. Not much hangs on the resolution of this question because starting in 2019 the mandate has been rendered unenforceable by Congress. There will no longer be any legal or financial penalty for failing to purchase insurance. If that were all there was to the states’ lawsuit, it would present an interesting legal question with little consequence. But that’s not even close to all there is. The states also argue that if the individual mandate is unconstitutional, the rest of the A.C.A. must fall, too. They audaciously claim that the mandate is too central to the act for the rest of it — including provisions as disparate as requiring restaurant owners to post calorie counts and expanding drug coverage under Medicare — to operate without it. The Justice Department’s response may be even more audacious. In a court filing, the department refused to defend the statute — a rarity — and expressed its support for a ruling in the states’ favor. Most shockingly, the Justice Department accepted part of the states’ argument that other key parts of the A.C.A. must fall with the mandate. Specifically, the department argues that two key insurance reforms — the requirements that insurers must accept everyone regardless of health condition at relatively equal rates — must go down with the ship. The Justice Department’s argument is based on an established legal principle called “severability,” under which courts ask whether if one provision of a statute is struck down, the rest should fall with it. But in this case, the Justice Department gets that principle exactly backward. An unbroken line of Supreme Court cases makes clear that the touchstone of severability is congressional intent. In a decision handed down by the Supreme Court just months ago, Justice Samuel Alito explained — quoting a long-established precedent for severability — that for a court to conclude that other provisions of a statute must fall, it must be clear that Congress “would not have enacted those provisions which are within its power, independently” of those that are to be struck down. In other words, what would Congress have done had it known a provision of the statute would be eliminated? These guessing-game questions about congressional intent are irrelevant in this context because it was Congress, not a court, that did the eliminating. Moreover, in doing so, Congress expressly left the rest of the statute in place — including the insurance protections the Justice Department now says, in the name of congressional intent, must fall. We don’t have to ask what Congress intended because we can see what Congress did. Game over. Although Congress passed — and President Trump signed — these A.C.A. revisions in 2017, the Department of Justice inexplicably looks to 2010, when Congress drafted the A.C.A., and 2012, when the Obama administration first defended it in the Supreme Court, to argue that the mandate and the insurance reforms are inextricably tied. Whatever Congress may have thought about the relationship between the individual mandate and the other insurance reforms in 2010, Congress has since changed its mind. In zeroing out the mandate penalty while leaving the rest of the law in place, Congress has done a lot more than merely show its “intent” to regulate the individual insurance market without penalizing those who fail to obtain insurance; it put that into action, incontrovertibly enacted into statutory text. The Texas-Justice Department position asks the court to effectively usurp legislative power and substitute its own policy views of the A.C.A. rather than applying that duly enacted law. Such a decision would be dangerous for future cases and muddy the severability doctrine — a doctrine based on separation of powers. That was enough for us, along with three other scholars on both sides of the aisle, to put our many differences aside and file a brief in the court to set the doctrinal record straight. Litigation over the federal government’s role in health care is likely to continue. There is room for respectful disagreement on how the A.C.A. should be interpreted and applied and what limits are or should be placed on federal intervention in this area. Some arguments, however, are beyond the pale. The claim that the alleged unconstitutionality of a mandate Congress has legislated not to enforce requires striking down other parts of the law that Congress has left standing is among them.