Gail Collins: O.K., Bret, I can’t even think of where to start. But I’ve got to ask you about North Korea. I know you were … dubious about the whole Trump venture. Do you think anything good has come out of it? Bret Stephens: It really has to rank high as one of the low moments of American diplomatic history. Leave aside, for a second, the unwisdom of giving Kim Jong-un recognition and prestige after he spends his time threatening the world with nuclear weapons and murdering his own people, not to mention his own family members. What is it with President Trump and his obsequiousness to dictators? Gail: I will refrain from saying that that’s what he wants to be when he grows up. Go on. Bret: The argument in favor of Trump’s approach is that we’ve tried everything else and failed, so why not give abject flattery a go? But Kim will be perfectly happy to pocket the flattery, and a few years’ worth of concessions, without actually giving up the things that maintain his grip on power — nuclear weapons and totalitarian repression. We’ve already seen his father and grandfather play this Lucy and the football routine with us, so why should this Kim be different? But the most jaw-dropping aspect of this debacle, for me at least, is watching guys like John Bolton and Mike Pompeo — the supposed über hawks who made their careers talking tough about North Korea and Iran — go along with Trump on this. Can you imagine what people would be saying right now, red-faced with outrage on Fox News, if Barack Obama or some other Democratic president were doing anything remotely similar? Gail: I’ve spent the last year-and-a-half saying, “Imagine what Fox would be broadcasting if Barack Obama …” The answer is clear: They’d be accusing Trump of giving the country away to the Commies. Bret: The Commies and the Muslim Brotherhood. Gail: I’ll go along with the general national response, which is sort of along the lines of: “Well, it’s better than starting a war.” Even though it was Trump who appeared to be doing the starting. I prefer this craziness to the my-nuclear-button-is-much-bigger-than-yours era. Bret: Of course, I hope you’re right. If this thing works out, I’ll be happy to eat my full serving of crow and write columns singing the praises of both Dear Leaders. And hey, who knows, maybe some bowing and scraping to Vladimir Putin when Trump meets him will solve some of our problems with Russia, too. But I’m skeptical. In the meantime, Gail, we’ve managed to create a diplomatic crisis with … Canada! Along with a horrifying immigration policy on our southern border, separating parents from their children. And House Republicans are planning to put forward two immigration bills that range from the moderately baneful to the aggressively awful. Didn’t we used to be a country of immigrants? Gail: Yeah, and a heck of a lot of them were illegal. Here’s the thing that amazes me — the Republican Party is supposed to be all about economic development, and yet we’re moving toward a point where the economy is really going to wither unless we get a new supply of younger workers. Certainly Trump should know that, given all the undocumented workers he had working for him in the past. But about those immigration bills. If you were Paul Ryan, what would you be trying to do with them? Bret: Other than bury my head in shame? Hmm. Well, I’d give up on the restrictionist Republican bills — both the hard-line Secure America’s Future Act (SAF) and the somewhat more moderate Recognizing America’s Children Act (RAF) — and endorse the fully bipartisan USA Act, which offers a broad path to legal residency and citizenship and fulfills the fundamental goal of the Democrats’ Dream Act. Gail: Can I say I’m proud to converse with a man who knows the difference between SAF and RAF? Do you think the bipartisan bill has a prayer? Bret: Trump won’t sign it, but that doesn’t mean Ryan can’t take a stand for the kind of immigration reform Republicans of his stripe used to support in the pre-Trumpified G.O.P. For those of you who are interested, our libertarian friends at the Cato Institute have a handy primer on the differences between the various bills. Since Ryan is leaving the House, he could and should give a few speeches making the case for why the United States needs more newcomers, not fewer. This is still a big open country, births are at a 30-year low and immigrants are an extraordinary source of national renewal. Those children being warehoused in Texas, as well as their parents, should be treated as assets to America, not liabilities, much less as criminals. Gail: We need to change the subject so we can stop agreeing so much. I’ve got the answer: health care! The Trump administration now seems to be supporting an end to insurance protection for people with pre-existing conditions. What’s your reaction? Bret: Uh-oh, this is the moment when I start taking incoming from our readers! I think we need to focus on people with pre-existing conditions who genuinely can’t afford treatment and create insurance pools to guarantee that they can afford the treatments they require. By some estimates, we’re talking about 500,000 people. Providing that kind of means-tested coverage should be doable. That’s very different from a blanket regulation that prevents insurance companies from pricing risk wisely, which is the essence of how those markets operate. Gail: Or we could just start moving toward Medicare for all. At least all who want to buy into it. The cost of our health care system is nuts and one of the reasons is that the financial structure is so complicated. I think that’s going to be a big issue in the next presidential election and probably even this fall. Bret: Well, I’m not a fan of the idea, but Medicare for all would at least be a system. Right now, the Affordable Care Act is teetering politically. I think it’s a good issue for the Democrats to run on. Particularly because Republicans made it clear last year that they have no idea what to replace Obamacare with, much less how to do it. Gail: Speaking of elections, what do you think about the primaries so far? A few weeks ago, everybody was hyperventilating about the Democrats picking very liberal candidates. Now Virginia Republicans have chosen Corey Stewart as their Senate candidate, a man who has only just now dissociated himself from a pair of anti-Semites and who has practically wrapped himself in the Confederate flag. Bret: Just another reminder of why I’m politically homeless these days. Our colleagues Trip Gabriel and Jonathan Martin have an instructive profile of Stewart, who is running to unseat Tim Kaine, the Democratic incumbent. The breathtaking detail for me was the speed with which Stewart went from being a “reasonable” conservative to a Stars-and-Bars man — in a matter of months — as the Trumpification of the G.O.P. took hold. It leaves you wondering whether his is a case of hidden bigotry or bottomless cynicism. Pretty foul either way. Everyone thinks Kaine will win the race in a walk, given his fund-raising advantages and name recognition and the fact that Virginia has been shading increasingly blue. I wouldn’t be so sure. And even if he doesn’t, what does it say about a political party that can nominate someone like Roy Moore in the fall and Corey Stewart in the spring — each time with the enthusiastic endorsement of a sitting Republican president? I really yearn for the days when George H. W. Bush publicly denounced David Duke as a “charlatan” when he ran as a Republican for governor in 1991. The party tended to its moral hygiene back then. No longer. Gail: I have fond memories of that election. Duke’s opponent was the deeply corrupt former governor, Edwin Edwards, and people drove around with bumper stickers saying: “Vote for the Crook. It’s Important.” An excellent reminder that while it’s perfectly reasonable to be impatient with government as usual in Washington, there are some things way worse than even sleaze or ineptitude. This should be the time for Republicans to draw some lines in the proverbial sand against what one House member called the Trumpian “flames of intolerance.” Unfortunately, said House member, Mark Sanford of South Carolina, lost his primary last week, after the president endorsed his opponent. So much, I guess, for lines in the sand. Bret: It confirms once again the relevance of Gresham’s law to politics — the bad tends to drive out the good. Then again, at some point Trump’s awfulness is bound to catch up with him, and maybe conservatives will begin to understand that he’s a danger to them politically as much as he is to the country and the world. I seriously hope the reckoning won’t be too damaging for all of us, but it can’t come soon enough.