If you want to understand American politics today, starting with the prospects for the 2018 midterm elections, you need to know Jim Domen. By the time he was in middle school, Mr. Domen knew he was different. His attraction to boys confused him. He knew it would shock his parents, born-again Christians. “I tried to read the Bible, and I prayed to change the sinful desires,” Mr. Domen told a radio interviewer in 2013. He tried dating girls, but that didn’t work either. When he eventually told his parents, they were “devastated,” he has said. They ordered him to seek treatment from a Christian counselor, but his attractions persisted. For several years in his 20s, Mr. Domen has said, he had a relationship with a man. After the couple split up, Mr. Domen enrolled as a seminary student at Azusa Pacific University, an evangelical Christian university in Azusa, Calif., and it was there that his life changed at last. He met his future wife; took a job at the California Family Council, an affiliate of Focus on the Family, an organization that promotes “biblical” answers to America’s social problems; and worked toward the passage of Proposition 8, California’s 2008 statewide ballot initiative stating that “only marriage between a man and a woman is valid or recognized in California.” From 2011 to 2014, Mr. Domen was a leader of Multisport Ministries, a national men’s athletic ministry that encourages men “to win as God’s men, competing in the character of Christ.” His transformation, he has said, was helped along by “hanging around healthy heterosexual men really teaching me on what it is to be a true man, the true masculinity.” Mr. Domen’s Twitter bio reads: “Pastor, Ironman, Husband, Daddy, Triathlete and Deplorable. I want the world to know I live for the glory of Jesus Christ.” Since 2014, Mr. Domen has been leading Church United, a group he founded with the aim of “helping pastors transform California at the government and church level.” If the Republican Party holds on to its congressional majority in 2018 and the presidency in 2020, it will be thanks in part to the efforts of Mr. Domen and others like him. This month in Washington, at the Road to Majority conference, an annual gathering of conservative religious activists, I heard Marsha Blackburn, a Republican representative from Tennessee who is running to replace Senator Bob Corker, sum up the national picture. “You all have heard that the Democrats say they’re going to have a big blue wave,” she said, as the audience tittered. “We have to make certain that blue wave goes crashing into the great red wall.” With a nod to the west, she added, “It looks like they had a little red-wall building going on in California this week.” California may look to the world like a blue state. But, as Ms. Blackburn knows, it has large swaths of red. Much of this is concentrated inland, where agribusiness millionaires share the roads with a multiethnic working population. Mr. Domen’s contribution to the red wall turns on an evergreen insight: Pastors can drive votes. The goal of Church United is therefore to politicize pastors in the right direction. Church United started with six affiliated pastors in 2014. The group now counts approximately 500 member pastors. Mr. Domen’s other crucial insight is that Christian nationalism is no longer an all-white affair. Church United has actively and successfully cultivated a multiethnic group of pastors from a variety of traditions — including Pentecostal and Catholic clergy members — that many white evangelical leaders of the Christian nationalist movement once regarded with contempt. On May 29, when Mr. Domen assembled dozens of pastors and “former homosexuals” on the steps of the Ronald Reagan federal building in Santa Ana to oppose California assembly bill 2943, which could expand California’s existing prohibition on “sexual orientation change efforts,” he made a point of showcasing that diversity. “There are pastors of every color and creed on the steps with us today,” Mr. Domen said. “Members of the press, I ask that you use this word for us, as ‘formers.’” Church United hosts regional briefings, facilitates partnerships with local officials and takes its members on what it calls “awakening tours” of the state Capitol in Sacramento to learn about the legislative process and “strategically target committee members” to defeat “the enormous evil facing California from the legislature,” according to text on the Church United website promoting the 2018 Sacramento tour. Church United also invites pastors to annual gatherings in Washington that have included a rooftop luncheon at the Heritage Foundation, a private screening of the anti-abortion movie “Gosnell,” a visit to the Museum of the Bible and meetings with sympathetic legislators. Mr. Domen’s efforts seem to be bearing fruit. “We’ve believed a lie for so long that the church and the state should be separated,” said Elias Loera, pastor of Fresno’s Christian Temple Assemblies of God, in a Church United promotional video. “In my awakening tour experience,” he noted, “We had a different perspective of, ‘Hey, guys, we’re supposed to be involved in this process.’” Another Church United-affiliated pastor, Bob Branch, who leads the Community Springs Church in Temecula, drew similar conclusions. “I was challenged and convicted that I was conceding the public square to the devil,” he wrote after attending a 2017 awakening tour in Washington. He implemented in his church a Culture Impact Team, an initiative designed to mobilize congregations to vote according to what they see as their biblical values. “Every single person in this room has a sphere,” Mr. Branch told his congregation. “And if we actually became God’s change agents within those spheres, then we’re talking about 150 people impacting perhaps 10,000 thousand people. And that infection spreads.” If Mr. Branch is able to spread this “infection,” it will mint right-wing voters. “The only commodity or currency in politics is winning elections,” Robb McCoy, pastor of Godspeak Calvary Chapel in Thousand Oaks, said in a Church United video. “We have got to get folks in the congregations to step into this political mountain of influence.” Mr. Domen and his pastors may use vague language about “getting involved in issues,” but there isn’t the slightest doubt whom and what they are ultimately supporting. President Trump, Mr. Domen wrote, has “done more for the Church than many Christian presidents have.” Moderates and progressives tend to overlook the impact of the Christian nationalist movement on our nation’s politics. But the parade of Republican Party dignitaries at the Road to Majority conference had little doubt about the power of the underlying alliance. “It’s a lot of fun when you have as much good news to report as we do,” an uncharacteristically ebullient Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, told the crowd. “In my view the last 16 months have been the single best period for conservative values since I came to Washington.” Playing to the audience, Mr. McConnell asserted, “The single most consequential decision I have made in my entire political career was to not let Barack Obama fill that Scalia vacancy on the way out the door.” Kellyanne Conway, the White House counselor, was equally ecstatic. “One-eighth of the U.S. Circuit Court judiciary right now is a Donald Trump appointee nominee,” she said, “and we’ve only been here for 16 months.” At an evening conference event at the Museum of the Bible, Barry Loudermilk, a Republican representative from Georgia, emphasized the biblical character of the Trump administration. “How many of you know that we have a church service every Wednesday night right over here in the Capitol building?” he said. “We have dozens of Bible studies that happen throughout the week. We have ministers that do nothing but walk the halls of the office buildings and drop in and pray with members.” Mr. Domen’s operation in California is just one among many efforts to mobilize pastors across the country into what is effectively an extension of the Republican Party. Watchmen on the Wall, a group organized by the Family Research Council, brings pastors together in Washington and other places. These briefings happen to be concentrated in contested states like North Carolina, Ohio and Missouri. Also working to mobilize pastors for Republican advantage is Bill Dallas, founder of the data operation United in Purpose, which was a sponsor of this year’s Road to Majority conference. One United in Purpose division, Churches Impacting Culture, “connects churches across the nation that are intentional about impacting American culture using the Bible as their standard of truth.” “We’ll help the pastor determine who is registered or not registered in their congregation,” Mr. Dallas said in a 2016 interview with Joni and Marcus Lamb of Daystar Television, in advance of the presidential election. If the red wall holds in November, Mr. Domen, Mr. Dallas and their allies will take a lot of credit, and they’ll deserve it. For now, Mr. Domen exudes the joy of a man who has suddenly found himself on the right side of history. “It is the people of God who will change California and its cities, one city at a time,” he wrote in a blog post titled “Goliath MUST Fall.” But perhaps his ambitions have always extended past California’s borders. “Imagine,” he wrote in another post, “if we grew and replicated these efforts in each of the 50 states!”