On Wednesday, I had an online conversation with Ralph Reed, the head of the Faith and Freedom Coalition. During the 2016 election, Mr. Reed was instrumental in getting out the evangelical vote for Donald Trump. His group, which has some 1.8 million members, says it will spend $20 million to turn out evangelical voters in the November midterm elections. I interviewed Mr. Reed late last month at the Times Center and touched briefly on the question of how he squares his Christian values with support for the Trump administration: I wanted to ask him more about that tension, about the Trump administration’s policy of separating families at the border, the president’s executive order — the news about it broke in the middle of our conversation — and more. An edited version of our discussion follows. WEISS: Ralph, it seems to me that the only topic anyone wants to talk about right now is the White House’s family separation policy, which is currently being enforced on our southern border. (By the time we finish this conversation, the president may sign an executive order ending that policy, though the details are still unclear. I’m refreshing our home page as we speak.) On Tuesday, your organization, the Faith and Freedom Coalition, made headlines for a letter you put out about that policy. You wrote: “The separation of families illegally crossing the border is heartbreaking and tragic, part of the larger tragedy of a broken immigration system that does not reflect our values or our faith.” What do you think ought to happen at the border? If you were talking to Mr. Trump — which you do — how would you advise him? REED: My advice to President Trump and Congress is identical to what’s in that letter we sent to Capitol Hill: Act now to fix a broken immigration system that does not reflect our values as a nation or our conscience as people of faith. We want the separation of families to end. We also agree with President Trump that doing so requires congressional action. Without getting too far in the weeds, this is because of a 1997 consent decree under the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals that spells out how the government has to handle children at the border. These children have to be separated from a parent once the parent is arrested because children can’t be put in jail or incarcerated — nor should they be. The Trump administration cannot simply ignore the law. More important, we are seeking priority of entry for minor children and spouses of permanent residents under our legal immigration system. There are untold numbers waiting in lines that are years in length all over the world. That compares to roughly 2,000 immigrant children who are currently in government custody at the border. This is bad policy and makes no sense. WEISS: My understanding of that decree, called the Flores settlement, is that it gives the government  options, one of them being breaking up families. Families are being split up at this very moment because of a Trump administration policy — specifically, the “zero tolerance” policy that Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced back in April. But I don’t want to get too in the legal weeds, as you say, because I want to talk about your influence and how you are using it. You have a tremendous amount of power to turn out voters in November. Let’s say the Trump administration doesn’t follow your advice and continues to separate families, that it continues to set up more “tender-age” shelters, that the public listens to more audio of children crying out for their parents. Will that change your calculation? REED: I am confident that Congress and the president will act quickly to resolve this, preferably with broader legislation that deals with children and spouses who are playing by the rules and trying to enter the country legally to join their parents or loved ones. If not, there will likely be a narrower solution that deals only with the unaccompanied children issue, but we much prefer the former. Let’s not miss a chance to do something compassionate and caring for all the children yearning to join their mothers and fathers legally — not just the unaccompanied children currently at the border. WEISS: The president has the authority to act on his own to end this policy. So why the emphasis on Congress? Indeed, as I type these words, the news splashing across our website is that Mr. Trump has just signed an executive order ending the family separation policy. This is quite a reversal. On Friday, Mr. Trump insisted that “we can’t do it through an executive order.” Apparently that was not true. So let’s talk about this executive order. It maintains the White House’s zero tolerance policy — everyone who crosses the border illegally will be prosecuted — but parents will no longer be separated from children. (The children currently separated from their parents will remain so for now.) What say you? Do you support this order? REED: We support it because it shows great compassion for the children while enforcing the law against illegally entering the country. Past failures to enforce our immigration laws and secure the border contributed mightily to the voter anger that helped fuel Mr. Trump’s rise, and he knows it well. I defer to the president and his advisers on what he can do by executive action. The executive order will likely be the subject of extended litigation and the courts will ultimately have the final say. But whatever the outcome, Congress should act. As President Barack Obama learned painfully when he attempted to solve the Dreamers problem by executive action, often the only way to make a fix permanent and have it survive court scrutiny is for Congress to change the law. We are strongly urging them to do so. WEISS: When we spoke last month at the Times Center, you mentioned several White House policies that were cheered by the evangelical community: the Embassy move to Jerusalem; the scuttling of the Iran deal; the appointment of Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. I can’t think of a major Trump policy that has gotten even close to this much pushback from evangelical leaders as his border policy has in the past few days. When Franklin Graham is criticizing a Republican president, something unusual is happening, is it not? What do you think it is about this policy specifically that is causing that? REED: For the vast majority of evangelicals, the pushback is not against President Trump, but against the larger tragedy of a broken and immoral immigration system. This is a system he did not create but has inherited. For those who have been paying attention, evangelicals have been working to reform immigration for years based on the principles of their faith, which call on us to show compassion and care for the alien and foreigner. But we also believe in the rule of law and securing the border. Some on the left love our compassion for immigrants but are not as keen on our desire to secure the border and enforce the law. We believe you have to do both. My hope is we can affect the debate in a positive way. Look at the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy. Evangelicals made their voices heard on DACA, arguing that children should not be punished for the crime of a parent who brought them to this country illegally. To President Trump’s great credit, he offered permanent legal residence and even an eventual path to citizenship for roughly two million DACA-eligible young people — not just the 675,000 who had formally registered to remain in the country under DACA. Now, Mr. Trump also wanted funding for the border wall, which Democrats rejected. My view is that was a good trade, and they should have taken it. WEISS: Speaking of trades, it seems to me that conservative evangelicals made a very clear political one: We’ll ignore the personal scandals and character of this candidate because he’ll deliver us what matters in terms of policy. Do you feel, a year and a half in, that this trade has been worthwhile? In the past few weeks The Times has run several articles about increasing unease, at least among some evangelicals — the protests this month at the Southern Baptist Convention during Vice President Mike Pence’s speech come to mind — with this administration. Tempest in a teapot or a harbinger of something bigger? REED: Evangelicals confronted a less than perfect choice in 2016, as they frankly do in almost every election, and they acted as responsible citizens in voting not for the lesser evil but for the greater good. There is a lot of revisionist history about the last presidential election. Recall that Hillary Clinton was under F.B.I. investigation for most of the campaign, and lied about sending and receiving classified material on her personal email server as secretary of state. A large majority of voters said she was not honest or trustworthy. When you combine those devastating critiques of her character issues with where she stood on abortion, the Iran nuclear deal, Obamacare and a host of other issues, she was simply unacceptable to evangelical voters. (Her failure to build a bridge to those voters of faith and discuss in a personal way her own Methodist faith was one of the great missed opportunities of her campaign.) By contrast, Mr. Trump was strongly pro-life and released a list of conservative judges from whom he promised to select Antonin Scalia’s replacement. He pledged to defund Planned Parenthood, move the U.S. Embassy to Jerusalem, end the harassment of churches by the I.R.S., withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal and defend religious freedom. He has kept every one of those promises. God must have quite a sense of humor to have brought evangelicals and Donald Trump together. Sometimes the most unlikely people become our staunchest defenders, and he certainly has. Not unlike Ronald Reagan, a divorced former Hollywood actor, who became the champion for evangelicals when our movement first burst upon the national political beaches almost 40 years ago. WEISS: I see what you are saying on the policy front. This was certainly the logic expressed by conservative Christians I know during the campaign. But the thing I could never understand — and this has only gotten much harder to square, listening to the audio of children crying for their parents at the border — is how those who believe in a God who elevates the weak, who loves the widow and the orphan, whose own mother was denied room at the inn, how they can justify support for a president and an administration that looks like the antithesis of what I have always understood to be Christian values. What am I missing? REED: Honestly, I think what you’re missing is his heart, and the heart of his administration. First of all, at the top of our list of the least, the lost and the vulnerable, we would put the unborn. They are children, too, and this president is defending their right to life by acting to prevent our tax dollars from being used to take their lives, which we believe is a national tragedy. Critics insisted during the 2016 campaign that he was just pretending to be pro-life to win evangelical votes. That charge has proved to be entirely false. Second, the president has called on Congress to provide permanent legal residence to two million young people who entered the country illegally with their parents. That is an act of compassion that is sharply at odds with the media caricature of President Trump. He spoke often on the campaign that his heart went out to these young people. Finally, he and the first lady have both called for ending the policy of separating parents and children who cross the border illegally. He traveled to Capitol Hill this week to urge Congress to act and send him a bill, promising to sign it. He is considering executive action if necessary. So for evangelicals, he does show a heart and compassion, and — please forgive me for mentioning this in a conversation with The New York Times! — they believe the failure of the media to credit this side of his character is just one more sign of its bias. Not only against him, but against them. WEISS: Last night on Fox News, the former Trump campaign manager and Trump surrogate Corey Lewandowski mocked a story about a child with Down syndrome who was taken from her mother at the border. That type of callousness seems to me the antithesis of Christian values. Set aside the policy questions for a moment. Is that behavior not a reflection of this administration’s character? You gave a quotation to this paper in 1998, as President Bill Clinton was facing impeachment. “Character matters,” you said. “We care about the conduct of our leaders, and we will not rest until we have leaders of good moral character.” I assume that view hasn’t changed. So where are the character critique of figures like Mr. Lewandowski or, frankly, of Mr. Trump himself? Above, you pointed out the that voters decided that Mrs. Clinton wasn’t trustworthy or honest. Do you think Mr. Trump is honest? REED: Corey is a good friend and I have worked closely with him in the past, and I wouldn’t want to comment on what he said without talking directly to him. But every word we speak and action we take should reflect God’s grace and love for all. And of course character matters. One important aspect of one’s character is whether they keep the promises they have made to the voters, and as I indicated above, Mr. Trump has done so on issues that matter deeply to evangelicals and millions of other citizens of faith. Does he sometimes say and do things I wish he would not? Yes, and so has every other politician I have ever worked with. My old friend Zell Miller, the Georgia senator who just recently went to be with the Lord, once told me, “The only politician you’re ever going to agree with on everything is the one looking at you in the mirror, and even he’s wrong half the time.” I never forgot that. To be effective in advancing public policy that reflects their faith, men and women who enter the arena fired by their religious beliefs cannot make the perfect the enemy of the greater good. We are all flawed, we are all sinners, we all fall short of God’s glory, we are all in various ways far from perfect. And I might add, I said the same thing in the 1990s when I argued strongly against attacks on Bill Clinton’s character. In my book “Active Faith,” I wrote: “I have always deliberately confined my criticism of Clinton to public policy issues, not his character or moral shortcomings” and “If Bill Clinton is a sinner, he is no worse or less than you or me.” That was not a popular position at that time in my community, but it is one that I felt very strongly about then, and I feel the same way about President Trump. WEISS: Steve Schmidt, the longtime Republican strategist, announced that he was quitting the Republican Party. He noted in a powerful Twitter thread that the party was “founded in 1854 to oppose slavery and stand for the dignity of human life” but today it has become “fully the party of Trump.” He calls those Republicans who support Mr. Trump “feckless cowards” and “vile enablers.” Curious what your response is. REED: Steve and I were colleagues on the 2004 Bush-Cheney campaign, and he’s a dear friend. I’m genuinely sorry he feels that way. But I don’t think it is fair to condemn some of the finest public servants in the country for working with this or any president to advance the good and combat grave moral evil. To choose just one example: President Trump recently signed into law the most sweeping anti-human trafficking legislation in a decade, protecting millions of victims, including children, from sex traffickers. Senator Rob Portman and Representative Ann Wagner shepherded that legislation in Congress, and I know because my organization worked hard for its passage that they displayed enormous courage and moral imagination in doing so. Many technology companies opposed the legislation and lobbied to kill it, while President Trump supported it. Within days of the president’s signing ceremony, websites engaged in trafficking children began closing down. I recommend waiting a while before attempting to render a final verdict on Mr. Trump. WEISS: You’d know these numbers better than me, but I believe a Pew survey from March found that 78 percent of white evangelicals approved of Mr. Trump’s performance. Do I have that right? What would Mr. Trump have to do for that number to drop? REED: That is about right. Mr. Trump won 81 percent of the evangelical vote in 2016, which was the highest share won by any presidential candidate in the history of modern polling. I think it is entirely possible that in 2020 his support could be even higher because of his record on judges, protecting life and religious freedom and defending Israel. There is one way for that support to drop precipitously, and that is if he were to betray his commitments on these critical issues. I don’t expect that to happen. WEISS: Last question, and forgive me if this is a strange one coming from me, but: What Would Jesus Do? Would he vote for Mr. Trump in 2020? REED: I have a pretty ironclad policy against speaking for Jesus. Jesus numbered among his disciples both a tax collector for the Roman Empire and a member of a political party dedicated to the violent overthrow of the Roman government. I don’t think that was an accident. Jesus Christ is Lord, and above partisan politics.