Martin Shkreli is in prison, but Daraprim still costs $750 per pill. Heather Bresch was hauled before Congress, but EpiPens still cost three to six times more than they did in 2007. Every week we hear of a new outrageous drug price increase. In polls, some 80 percent of Americans say that government should do more to curb drug prices. Having proclaimed just before his inauguration that drug makers were “getting away with murder,” President Trump last month issued a 50-point blueprint to bring down prices, mainly by injecting more competition — and a dose of public shaming — into the market. Though the document was light on specifics, containing more than 130 questions, it included proposals for speeding the development and sale of generics, strengthening insurers’ negotiating clout, and making pricing more transparent. The administration apparently hopes that, with a nudge and prod, the market will control pharmaceutical pricing excesses. If history is a guide, it won’t. Competition may work well to lower the prices of baguettes and cars. But it has proved to have limited impact on American health care, especially when it comes to expensive interventions like prescription drugs. Exhibit A would be Novartis’s cancer drug Gleevec, a miracle when it was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2001. It turned a deadly form of leukemia into a treatable disease. Today, people who are in remission after two years of taking the drug have a normal life expectancy. When Gleevec came on the market, its list price was about $26,000 a year. Today, there are several highly effective drugs in the same family on the market (sometimes called “sons of Gleevec”). The list price for each is about $150,000 annually. (Notably, Dr. Brian Drucker, the researcher who demonstrated that the drug could cure cancers, never got a patent and never made money from it.) What happened is that each new entrant cost more than its predecessors, and their makers then increased their prices to match the newcomer’s. When the first generic version entered the market in 2016, its list price was only slightly less, about $140,000. This phenomenon, what economists call “sticky pricing,” is common in pharmaceuticals. It has raised the prices in the United States of drugs for serious conditions including multiple sclerosis and diabetes even when there are multiple competing drugs. The problem is that companies have decided it is not in their interest to compete. In situations where there can be only one winner, competing is a given. But a lot of life and a lot of business just isn’t like that, especially when a group of companies are all doing good business by selling a type of drug for a very high price. There’s cover in numbers. When you’re driving on the highway where a speed limit is 55 and most everyone’s going 70, you’re likely to increase your speed, too. Why should you feel bad? Why would the cop single you out? Someone else in a flashy car is probably doing 90. (For drug makers, Mr. Shkreli would be the hot-dogger who gives others cover.) The parties are not really colluding. Drivers aren’t calling one another up to agree to drive too fast; no manufacturers (one hopes) are sitting at a country club agreeing to keep their prices high. This makes drug makers difficult to prosecute under racketeering or restraint of trade laws. And shaming is in the eye of the beholder. The companies’ “stakeholders” are not really, after all, patients, but shareholders, who most likely will support attempts to make as much money as possible. But while drug prices in America are going up, many of the same drugs are cheaper — and repeatedly have their prices lowered — in other developed countries, where governments step in to regulate costs. These countries conduct large-scale negotiations to set a national price or price ceiling that its government or hospitals or citizens will pay — a kind of speed limit. Some stipulate that prices decline as a drug ages. (Now you know why Novartis might have paid $1.2 million to Michael Cohen, the president’s personal lawyer and “fixer,” after hearing the candidate’s threats.) This is true of countries that have a national health system and those that do not. And price regulation can coexist with that American value, competition. Armed with an assessment of a drug’s utility, Britain’s National Health Service sets a price it is willing to pay pharmacists for medicines they dispense. The pharmacists, who are in business for themselves, can then source the medicine from any wholesaler. The more cheaply they can procure the medicine, the more they profit. Patients pay only a small portion of the cost and there is overview to correct for “market failure” — a situation in which pharmacies are making too much or too little from this arrangement. Noting the far higher drug prices in the United States, the Trump administration has falsely accused other countries of “freeloading” on America’s investment in drug development. One of the questions in its blueprint is: “What can be done to reduce the pricing disparity?” If those 50 points don’t work once the 130-plus questions are answered, then perhaps our government will conclude, as others have, that we, too, need some speed limits.