Perhaps you’ve come to wonder how tearing babies away from their mothers over a victimless misdemeanor came be the official policy of the United States government. It’s a question on a lot of our minds. Most of us are outraged and livid with shame that the savagery of “tender age” shelters was undertaken by our government, on our behalf. If we’re ready to say “never again,” we need to be willing to expose the roots of the Trump administration’s “zero tolerance” policy. We need to be willing to cut them out. Blame Donald Trump’s ruthless bigotry, sure. But when the president walked into the Oval Office, he walked into a ready-made, bipartisan immigration policy framework poised for brutality. Militarized borders, deportation squads, an archipelago of internment facilities, hypertrophied executive power, a lurid body of national security and anti-trafficking law sprung from the rich manure of panic — none of this is Mr. Trump’s handiwork. It was an inheritance. And now Mr. Trump has deployed this machinery of repression, bristling with Bush- and Obama-era upgrades, to take terrified innocents hostage. The administration sees the moral horror and basic decency of the American people as weakness it can exploit to extort concessions to its unpopular, hard-right agenda of ethnocultural population control. The president’s fresh executive order, falsely advertised as a reversal on family separation, is nothing but a ransom note. It amounts to a promise to continue ripping families apart unless settled legal protections for Mr. Trump’s child hostages are removed. Stephen Miller, the president’s trusted adviser, is enthusiastic about the possibility that scarring toddlers for life might rally the embattled president’s base and drive favorable midterm turnout. The White House’s nonchalance about using the suffering of children as a means to its political ends is beyond sickening. But a handful of memos altering internal executive agency policy could not have brought us so neatly to the point of kidnapping children and sticking them in warehouses, with no immediately obvious legal problem, if relatively unbounded executive discretion to inflict industrial-scale suffering weren’t already written into law, if decommissioned Walmarts hadn’t already been repurposed as prisons for immigrant kids, and if a moral and legal framework for the justification of this infrastructure had not been well entrenched. The keys to a cruel machine were handed over to a cruel and indecent man. Thousands of families are living inside a nightmare because we knew the machine could be cruelly and indecently used, but we went ahead and built it anyway. To see why it must be disassembled, we need to understand how the seductively paranoid logic of nativist escalation made the step into internment camps for kids so short. For right-wing populists like Mr. Trump, a country is a nation, a nation is a people of a specific culture and complexion, and failure to police the composition of the population threatens to dilute that character beyond recognition. From this perspective, any level of immigration, legal or illegal, economic or humanitarian, that might turn America into a majority-nonwhite country is a recipe for national suicide. If a majority of Americans refuse to accept racial hygiene as a legitimate policy goal that justifies reducing immigration to a trickle, then they must be spooked, deceived and ransomed into doing it anyway. The one-way ratchet that built our cruel immigration enforcement machine really got cranking once “border security” had been more or less universally accepted as an urgent policy goal. The panic fomented by the Sept. 11 attacks, which led to the creation of Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the serious militarization of the southern border, supplied the critical psychological foundation for restrictionist escalation. But our border with Mexico cuts across a historically, economically and culturally integrated region, and hardening it doesn’t stop the demand or supply of Mexican and Central American labor. Nor does it much discourage refugees fleeing life-threatening civil violence. Intense militarized enforcement does make border-crossing more perilous, so demand for help getting across — for “trafficking” and “smuggling” — goes up. Ascending to the next rung on the ladder of escalation requires capitalizing on other sources of overreaction to criminalize that help. Moral panic over trafficking of sex slaves and forced laborers is promoted not only by religious conservatives looking to crack down on consensual sex work and outlaw pornography but also by feminists and liberal Hollywood do-gooders. This climate of alarm has been tremendously useful to reactionary nationalists looking to seal off borders and routes of migration. This is not to say coerced sex and labor trafficking isn’t a serious and horrifying problem. But there is no reliable data to support the idea that it is rife in the United States or merits emergency action. There is a widespread belief that it does, however, and that has allowed the Trump administration to portray its pitiless war on informal networks of transnational mobility as a way to protect vulnerable people, especially children, from the “criminals” who ply them. And it has helped them justify treating parents seeking physical and economic security for their children as dangerous lawless smugglers of their own sons and daughters. In his first days in office, the president issued an executive order declaring that “the trafficking and smuggling of human beings by transnational criminal groups risks creating a humanitarian crisis.” The administration has relentlessly characterized the prosecutorial discretion previously exercised to avoid family separation and laws intended to protect detained immigrant children as “loopholes” that have, in Mr. Trump’s words, “created a massive child smuggling trade.” There is no evidence of “a massive child smuggling trade.” There is no evidence of “humanitarian crisis” involving “transnational criminal groups” apart from the crisis of refugees fleeing civil strife in Central America. When considering the administration’s rhetoric about human trafficking, smuggling rings and the humanitarian benevolence of measures like family separation, which, in the words of John Kelly, the White House chief of staff, deter “movement along this terribly dangerous network,” remember that the Underground Railroad was a dangerous network and criminal human smuggling enterprise. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen defended the administration’s family separation policy this week by intimating that there is a torrent of “adults showing up with kids that are not a family unit.” Ms. Nielsen maintains that “those are traffickers, those are smugglers, that is MS-13, those are criminals, those are abusers.” But the D.H.S.’s own numbers suggest otherwise. The rate of adults apprehended with kids fraudulently posing as family rose from just 0.1 to 0.6 percent of all cases of accompanied minors snagged at the border between 2017 and the first five months of this year. All but a minuscule fraction of kids crossing with adults are in the company of close kin. But every single one of them who crossed between checkpoints was, technically, in the company of a “smuggler,” because the law against “alien smuggling” applies to anyone who has helped an unauthorized migrant across the border, and need not involve coercion or abuse. The administration has offered no data on the portion of the small number of migrants falsely posing as parents who are bad actors rather than, say, second cousins or family friends. In 2016, there were 2,404 alien smuggling convictions. Less than half of those found guilty had a prior criminal history. Most of them were American. Fewer than 50 of them had smuggled a minor. The government offers no evidence to the effect that there’s a crisis-level smuggling and trafficking problem in response to which 100 percent prosecution of misdemeanor “improper entry” violations, family separation or its new demand for indefinite family detention could make any kind of practical or moral sense. Yet the government separated 2,342 children from 2,206 parents at the United States-Mexico border in the short period between May 5 and June 9. The Trump administration is lying to us. It isn’t protecting kids, or anyone, from transnational smuggling rings. It has co-opted the pre-existing ideology of our paranoid, militarized, restrictionist immigration enforcement regime to seal off American territory from ethno-cultural “infestation,” deter legitimate asylum claims, justify the callous abnegation of our humanitarian obligations to refugees and exploit vulnerable people for political leverage. We can’t protect these abused children by allowing the president to use them as hostages to negotiate further escalation and build an even crueler, more powerful, more repressive machine. The fact that we built it at all, and on a bipartisan basis, is a stain on our national conscience. It was made through zero-sum thinking. Us or them. Win or lose. But the ebb and flow of human traffic over borders, the mingling of people and goods and ideas, is the natural pattern of human cooperation, and the durable basis of positive-sum peace. The machine will sputter and fall apart when we see that this movement makes us safe by tying our fortunes together, by making friends and partners of our neighbors. We can regulate rather than impede the natural currents of regional movement, encourage trust and lawful order rather than mutual suspicion and turmoil. We could, if we wanted, make North America great again. Congress is meant to throttle the power of the executive. Until the legislative branch takes back its intended authority, and remembers how to function, the very existence of the machine will tempt its operator with autocratic power. We can’t just tinker with the machine, add a few safety features here and there. We have to smash it. And after we smash it, we have to wage a permanent campaign against the irrational fear that made it possible, so that we never build it again.