Did Southern Baptists just make history? It certainly looks that way, with the election of a young, diversity-sensitive president, J. D. Greear, and even more so, the public dethroning of Paige Patterson, the former president of the Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary, in Fort Worth. There is no better symbol of change than the silencing of Mr. Patterson by the victims of domestic abuse he had long counseled to keep quiet. It’s more likely, however, that larger problems still loom. As a historian, I’m natively skeptical of undue optimism: Paradigms shift a lot less often than we think they do. I also know that religious institutions are particularly adept at evading change, especially in regard to women. There the wound is old and deep. The Southern Baptist Convention has a lot of ground to cover. Opposition to feminism was a linchpin of the conservative takeover that Mr. Patterson helped engineer in the 1980s. Since then, the convention has only tightened restrictions on women, with a 1998 resolution declaring the duty of wives to submit to their husbands, and in 2000, a prohibition of women’s ordination as pastors. In Southern Baptist governance, none of these statements are enforceable canon law, but they are powerful. Mr. Patterson’s conservatives insisted that theirs was the only possible interpretation of the Bible’s texts on women, the true meaning of the Scriptures as God wrote them. Given its past record, then, the convention’s 2018 statement on “abuse” is a significant step forward. In forthright language, Southern Baptists announced their intention to “deplore, apologize, and ask for forgiveness” for past failures to protect the weak. They denounced abuse as “unquestionably sinful” and called on pastors and churches to speak out, to enforce safe spaces for women and children, and to alert civil authorities when necessary. Southern Baptists do not take these steps lightly. They are acknowledging not just individual wrongdoing like Mr. Patterson’s but also a longstanding pattern of failure. This is a rare moment for any religious organization. Moreover, given their polity, the task ahead is especially daunting. Tracking and punishing abuse is hard enough under a hierarchy, but in a church body historically dedicated to “soul freedom” and the autonomy of local congregations, the logistics are formidable. And then there are the problems unaddressed. The resolution on abuse also situated itself firmly in the past, reaffirming in crisp Pauline language the “headship” of husbands over wives and children. “Complementarian” theology, popular not just among Southern Baptists but evangelical Protestants generally, holds that though men and women are equal in the sight of God, they have different functions in marriage and in the church. Only men have the authority to lead, and women must follow. It doesn’t take a terribly suspicious mind to wonder whether these teachings allowed powerful men to exploit vulnerable women in the first place. But the convention waved off that possibility with a proof text. Yes, wives were to submit to their husbands, but, hey, husbands had to love their wives “as Christ loves the church.” Nothing to see here, just keep moving. This does not mean that conservative religion is synonymous with domestic abuse. A vast majority of Southern Baptist men are, without a doubt, supportive and sensitive husbands. In fact, studies of complementarian households find them for all practical purposes not terribly different from their secular counterparts. Wives work outside the home and husbands help the kids with homework. It is also worth pointing out that in pretty much every Protestant denomination, women are a large majority of churchgoers. In the Southern Baptist case, they hold considerable power, of a sort. The Women’s Missionary Union, founded in 1888 as a fund-raising arm of the convention, now has over one million members and declares itself the largest women’s organization in the world. The W.M.U., a vigorous grass-roots movement, proudly represents all that is best in the Southern Baptist tradition. The real problem is history. Reconciliation requires truth, acknowledging wrongs done in the present as well as past injustices, unremembered but not forgotten. Southern Baptists have faced their past before: In 1995 the convention admitted its historical complicity in slavery and tolerance of racism. The statement included an eloquent request for forgiveness to their “African-American brothers and sisters,” recognizing that “our own healing is at stake.” After many debates about Confederate monuments and buildings named for unrepentant racists, we are learning that the past is uncomfortably real. History has teeth, and it can bite. We had best pay attention. Will Southern Baptists? The 2018 convention marked the centennial of female “messengers,” the decision to allow them voting rights in the convention. In flowery Victorian language, they thanked God for calling women to “a variety of roles within the biblical framework of complementary gender relationships” and praised them for contributing in “biblically appropriate ways” to the work of the church. In fact, the 1918 decision made Southern Baptist women, for the first time, full church members. It gave them, at long last, an equal voice in convention business. Now it appears that they are starting to talk. Women are speaking in public about the private sins of abuse, how violence against wives and children has been rationalized by complementarian theology. But there are other items on the agenda and other uncomfortable truths hovering overhead. The future is still bound up with the past. Perhaps we are seeing the ties begin to loosen.