When the history of the cruel policy of family separation is written, constitutional theorists will record that more than 2,300 children were taken from their parents at the border because the legislative branch lost its appetite for legislating. Even as he signed an executive order ending the practice, President Trump repeatedly blamed congressional Democrats for his own administration’s inhumane policy of family separation. Stop me, he seemed to say, before I brutalize again. But like many political falsehoods, his also contained a trace of truth. Both sides’ failure to legislate allowed the cruelty to persist for weeks while a mounting bipartisan consensus in Congress implored the president to stop doing what its own laws arguably gave him the discretion to do. This is what Congress, the first branch of government and the center of the constitutional regime, has become: an institutional supplicant that urges the other branches of government to do what it could do itself. Stop us, members beseech, before we delegate again. It is not just that a polarized Congress has lost the capacity to legislate. That excuse is itself an abdication of authority. What it has lost is not the ability to legislate but rather the will. The operating assumption of the Constitution’s system of separation of powers is that each branch of government’s first loyalty will be to its own authority. So why didn’t Congress react to the policy change at the border jealously? Republicans and Democrats alike ought to have said that immigration policy was theirs to make, not the president’s. The Constitution, after all, authorizes Congress to enact a “uniform rule of naturalization.” Congress never made Mr. Trump separate families, but neither did it stop him, despite having a higher claim to authority over immigration policy. It was Congress that passed immigration laws so broad that these measures managed to accommodate both President Barack Obama’s executive decision not to enforce them in a defined class of cases — thus the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program — and the Trump administration’s zero-tolerance policy of enforcing laws every time. Either of those presidential decisions ought to have prompted Congress to defend its prerogatives. But both were met with a bizarre blend of outrage and apathy. The Republican majority in Congress could have rescinded DACA, but instead asked the courts to overturn the policy. Ending family separation was within Congress’s authority as well. The practice of according the executive broad authority over policy leads to what James Madison called “the very definition of tyranny”: the combination of policymaking and enforcement that exposes individuals to unpredictable and arbitrary government actions. Montesquieu, the great commentator on separation of powers, defined liberty as “a tranquillity of mind arising from the opinion each person has of his safety.” When Congress cedes its authority to make policy to the executive branch, the law becomes a matter of presidential whim instead. Absent congressional action now, Mr. Trump could reinstitute family separation tomorrow. Congress is the first branch for a reason. Its size is capable of encompassing the full diversity of opinions in a sprawling republic. The executive, by contrast, operates in black and white: You either agree with him or you don’t. The legislature is also more institutionally disposed to deliberation than a single officer is. The authority of Congress is supposed to be secured by its members’ ambition to exercise power. Madison would regard the idea of members retaining their offices by surrendering their authority as an inexplicable paradox. One problem is that members of Congress view issues like immigration through the lens of partisan rather than institutional loyalty. There is no small irony, then, in the fact that Madison, the brilliant explicator of separation of powers in the Federalist Papers, later helped justify the rise of the party system that undermined it. Another difficulty is that delegating authority enables Congress to proclaim broad policy goals while escaping accountability for the difficult trade-offs that actual policymaking entails. Yet none of these solves the puzzle of why members of Congress want the office but not the power it confers. The conservative author Yuval Levin, noting that President Trump is remarkably weak on domestic policy but that Congress has not taken the opportunity to fill the void, compellingly suggests that members are more interested in performance than in policymaking. Retaining access to the political-industrial complex of lobbying and influence-peddling may be another motive for this lethargy and timidity. Given the sorry state of civic education, it is equally plausible that members of Congress want to exercise power, but do not know they have it. That is no exaggeration: Last year, Representative Ted Yoho, a Florida Republican,  even said that a committee chairman in Congress “works for the president and answers to the president.” Whatever the cause, the key to restoring Congress is reviving the motive to exercise power. Ultimately, this problem, like most in politics, boils down to public opinion. Voters need to reward rather than recoil from the desire to exercise power and the conflict that attends it. Otherwise, congressional abdication — and therefore drastic swings in policy and ugly spectacles like the one that unfolded at the border — will continue.