This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. “We have reached another turning point,” Jake Sullivan, the former adviser to Hillary Clinton, Barack Obama and Joe Biden, writes in a new essay in the journal Democracy. In the essay, Sullivan makes a more detailed version of an argument that you’ve heard in this newsletter: that Democrats should recognize the political center on economic policy has actually become the political left. Most voters want the government to respond aggressively to the stagnation of middle-class living standards. Americans, to be clear, are deeply divided on all sorts of issues — abortion, guns, immigration and race. And on some of those issues, public opinion is significantly more conservative than liberals often like to admit. But economic policy is different. A majority of Americans lean decidedly left on taxes, health care, the minimum wage and education funding. “Just as the Great Depression discredited the ideas of the pre-New Deal conservatives who fought for total laissez-faire outcomes in both the political branches and the courts, so the Great Recession once again laid bare the failure of our government to protect its citizens from unchecked market excess,” Sullivan writes. “There has been a delayed reaction this time around, but people have begun to see more clearly not only the flaws of our public and private institutions that contributed to the financial crisis, but also the decades of rising inequality and income stagnation that came before — and the uneven recovery that followed. Our politics are in the process of adjusting to this new reality.” Sullivan’s argument is significant because he isn’t on the left half of the Democratic Party. In an article about Sullivan’s role in Hillary Clinton’s campaign, Vox once wrote, “He won’t drag Clinton to the left.” But as Sullivan notes in the essay, the economic facts have changed in recent years, with middle-class living standards stagnating even when the economy is growing. When reality changes, politics should change too. He discusses an array of potential solutions including child care; wage insurance; larger tax subsidies for low-income workers; a tax on wealth; more aggressive antitrust policy; and investments in struggling regions. The essay isn’t short. But if you’re interested in economic policy, I recommend setting aside the time to read it. “Democrats do not have to choose between shoring up the ‘vital center’ in American politics and supporting a more vigorous national response to our economic challenges,” Sullivan writes. “Both are possible. Indeed, both are necessary to defeating the long-term threat of Trumpism.” A new colleague. The Times announced a new Op-Ed columnist yesterday: Michelle Alexander, the legal scholar and author of “The New Jim Crow,” arguably the most significant book written about mass incarceration. Her column will start in September. Until then, I recommend the book or the documentary film “13th,” in which she is interviewed. I recently read “The New Jim Crow” as part of my reporting for a column on Curtis Flowers, a Mississippi man who appears to have been unjustly convicted of murder, and I’m really excited that Michelle is joining our pages.