A correspondent asks a very good question. The other day I posted a wonkish piece about the economics of a trade war, which argued that there would be huge disruption but the overall cost would be smaller than many people imagine — maybe 2-3% of GDP. The correspondent asked how to reconcile this with typical estimates of the cost of Brexit. Such estimates — I’ve done my own back-of-the-envelope version, which is more in less in the same ballpark (cricket field?) as other estimates — typically run somewhere around 2 percent of British GDP. Yet even pessimists predict a much smaller impact of Brexit on British trade than the huge declines I’ve been suggesting from a Trump-created trade war, which I have just decided to call Trumpit. Aren’t these estimates inconsistent? No, not really, because Brexit isn’t about higher tariffs; it’s about higher trade costs, higher costs of doing business across borders. And that makes a huge difference. Figure 1 shows the standard textbook picture (hey, I wrote the standard textbook!) of the effects of a tariff. A tariff helps domestic producers who compete with imports, hurts domestic consumers, and generates revenue for the government. These three effects add up to a net loss, because the tariff distorts incentives: the good is produced by firms who have higher costs than it would cost to import the good, consumers refrain from buying even though it’s worth more to them than its price on world markets. These distorted incentives — the “deadweight loss” from a tariff — are shown by the areas of the triangles in the figure. And these triangles correspond to the single triangle I used in the figure that went with my exercise in wonkdom, here shown as Figure 2. But Brexit won’t raise prices by imposing a tariff, which will generate government revenue. It will, instead, make doing business more expensive: extra paperwork, longer waits for trucks waiting to be onloaded and offloaded, higher invisible costs of trading services. So you need to add the rectangle in Figure 1 labeled “government revenue” to the overall economic losses. Or to put it differently, you get a picture like Figure 3, in which higher trade costs as well as distorted incentives reduce real income. (The incentives aren’t actually distorted given Brexit, but they are compared with what you’d face without it.) How big a deal is that difference? I’ve previously guessed that Brexit will reduce British trade with the rest of Europe by a third, from 15 to 10 percent of GDP. If the elasticity of demand is 3, that would require trade costs on the order of 13 percent of import prices. If that 13 percent number were a tariff, the overall cost would be 0.13*2.5 percent of GDP (half the import decline). That’s about 0.3 percent of GDP — not tiny, but fairly small. But if we’re talking about higher trade costs, you need to multiply these by the average of pre- and post-Brexit imports, or 12.5 percent of GDP. Now we’re up to 1.6 percent of GDP. So that’s why Brexit estimates are so much higher than trade-war logic might suggest. Brexit won’t tax trade, it will make it really, truly, deeply more expensive to conduct — and that’s a big deal.