When I was a teenager, I used to skip school to go to the library. I followed one call number to another until I’d collected a whole stack of books. It was like magic — you could look up a slew of numbers and letters and all of a sudden find books that told the history of witchcraft or women or sex. You could begin to build an answer to all of the questions you had about the world. In all this searching, though, I never read “Stone Butch Blues,” by Leslie Feinberg. I saw the cover in passing, but no one had told me about it. I didn’t know it was famous in certain circles and I didn’t know that it was exactly what I needed as a high school student, sitting on a marble bench in the Boston Public Library, wondering which book could describe the contradictions I saw all around me: How was it that my teachers — at the private school where I was a scholarship student — insisted racism was a thing of the past when there was only one black teacher on the faculty and I was the only black girl in my class? Why was it that politicians insisted that welfare wasn’t necessary anymore when I knew it had saved my family? Most adults told me it was rude and not very smart to even try to ask these questions. Decades later, as we all are trapped in a political discourse that emptily refers to empathy and knows enough to speak about trauma, but only in the abstract, and in which there appear to be “sides” on the question of what is the most ethical way to imprison children, “Stone Butch Blues” is exactly the book all of us should be reading. Sometimes, when you read a book, it feels as if the author has been waiting decades to speak to you. “Stone Butch Blues,” which turns 25 this year, has that power. Why isn’t it required reading today? Maybe because Feinberg, who died in 2014, was “an anti-racist white, working-class, secular Jewish, transgender, lesbian, female, revolutionary communist,” according to her own characterization. I finally read Feinberg’s novel in February on a research trip in Haiti. I left the hotel every night and traveled to 1970s upstate New York. Every so often I would look up excitedly from the page and say to my boyfriend, “She’s writing about strike breaking!” or “This scene is a perfect attempt to explain the racial politics of organizing!” In the novel, Feinberg’s avatar, the protagonist, Jess, grows up in working-class Buffalo in the 1950s, at first identifying as a butch lesbian, then realizing she must transition to a closeted trans man as the political debates around feminism, political lesbianism and the very real pressure of finding a job intensify. The story follows Jess’s attempts to organize while doing factory work; it explores upstate New York’s lesbian scene; and it shows the police and state violence she experiences. Along the way, Jess tries to answer questions that I see and hear people around me grapple with today: How do you effectively organize across racial lines? How do you address the generational divides in your community? How do you fight sexism in your workplace, knowing you’re going to have to eat with your foes and band with them later for fair working conditions? The quarter-century-old work does something that most political writing cannot do, something that speaks to our current moment. It reminds us of the psychological and emotional toll of oppression. It has become fashionable for writers to talk about the transformative power of empathy in fiction. But that potential is realized only when empathy is deployed in conjunction with an understanding of power and how it functions. Jess continually marks the ways oppressive systems are most damaging — the way they force those who are oppressed to hate themselves and identify with their oppressor. And to navigate them, you are often asked to kill off any feeling or natural part of yourself to survive. If we are the hated, we are taught to cut off feeling for ourselves. And what is remarkable is that Jess also observes this emotional blockage in everyone around her — the black trans man she befriends at her local bar; the white male co-worker who attempts to befriend her but whom she knows, from self-preservation, she cannot fully befriend because he is likely to react with violence to her gender identity. This spring I was teaching an undergraduate writing class. One of my students told me that he had written a short story with a nonbinary protagonist who used them/their pronouns and that his previous workshop teacher had advised him to edit that out. “She told me my work should be timeless,” he said. “But I want to speak to these times.” It seems such a shortsighted critique. It reminds me of this quote, from Isaac Bashevis Singer, in his Paris Review interview from 1968. The interviewer asked Singer about his belief in the supernatural, and Singer responded with this story: For thousands of years, he said, people used to wear woolen clothes, and when they took them off at night they saw sparks, which they must have been afraid to talk about lest they be suspected of being sorcerers and witches. “We know now that they were not hallucinations, that they were real,” he said. “And I say that we too in each generation see such sparks which we ignore just because they don’t fit into our picture of science or knowledge.” It is the writer’s duty, pleasure and function, he said, to bring out those sparks. Feinberg once stated that like “all forms of prejudice, bigotry against transgendered people is a deadly carcinogen. We are pitted against each other in order to keep us from seeing each other as allies. Genuine bonds of solidarity can be forged between people who respect each other’s differences and are willing to fight their enemy together.” I think of the marginalized experiences some people find threatening that have always been here, will always be here. In the past, we pretended not to see them because we did not have a name for them. But art dies, art expires within the time limits of its era, if it does not keep pushing us to name those sparks.