AMHERST, Mass. — After receding for the past 10 years, populism is making a comeback in Latin America. On June 17, Colombians elected a president from a right-wing populist party. On July 1, Mexicans are likely to elect a president from a left-wing populist campaign of his own creation. Populist movements typically share two traits. They provide uneven inclusion, by mobilizing previously excluded groups while simultaneously creating obstacles, even hardship, for their opponents. They also openly question, even revoke, institutions restraining the formal powers of the presidency. Despite their different policy priorities, the movements that are rising in Colombia and Mexico both view the political system in terms of good guys and bad guys, cowboys and Indians. Both see the presidency as the office at the helm of a crusade against certain groups, and thus, both are uncomfortable with checks on presidential powers. These movements may not kill democracy, as some critics contend, but they will strain democratic institutions. Colombia’s right-wing populism is returning by way of President-elect Iván Duque, 41, an open protégé of former President Álvaro Uribe, Latin America’s most famous right-wing populist. His brand can be summarized in three words: tough on security. In the 2000s, when Mr. Uribe was president, tough on security meant applying relentless military force against guerrillas. In the last few years, when Mr. Uribe was in the opposition, it meant bad-mouthing the government’s effort to reach a peace agreement with the guerrillas, signed finally in 2016. Mr. Duque was a technocrat working for the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington when he decided to enter Colombian politics by joining Mr. Uribe’s camp in 2014. He embraced the former president’s harsh stance against the peace agreement. In return, Mr. Uribe supported his bid for the Senate, and now for the presidency. This alliance with Mr. Uribe has been Mr. Duque’s political anchor — the reason he rose so fast politically. It won’t be easy for Mr. Duque to let go of that anchor. In Mexico, the likely winner is Andrés Manuel López Obrador. He offers a populism with a different focus. Instead of security, his focus is corruption and distribution of wealth. He has vowed to review every state program and every private contract for evidence of corruption. The guilty, under Mr. López Obrador, will finally pay. And the savings from this purge will be so enormous, we are told by Mr. López Obrador, that the country will be able to afford a vast expansion of public spending without raising taxes. The problem with these populists is not that they are elevating irrelevant issues, but that they can be tone-deaf to other issues. In Colombia, an increasingly diverse society calls for a comprehensive political platform, and right-wing populism has too little to offer. Mr. Duque’s platform, for instance, says nothing about the L.G.B.T. community, one of the most successfully mobilized globally. Furthermore, when one places security above all else, it’s easy to go overboard punishing the other side, which can jeopardize peace. You also risk becoming too insensitive to other problems, such as inequality, and too forgiving of other crimes, such as corruption. Mr. Duque’s party has too many figures implicated in human rights abuses and corruption. He has begun to cater to evangelicals. If the president-elect chooses to protect these groups, while being tough on the opposition, his pledge to reconcile the country will mean nothing. Likewise, when a leader places corruption at the top of the agenda, as Mr. López Obrador has done, there’s a risk he will take control of all branches of government. Mr. López Obrador talks about his future administration as if he dreams of assuming not just the presidency, but also the legislative and judicial branches, since he alone feels apt to decide what counts as corrupt and who is guilty. Because he is not convinced that Mexico’s institutions are democratic, he may be tempted to change them at will. Mr. López Obrador prefers politics the way things used to be done in Mexico until the 1980s — by personal fiat, and always with a heavy dose of angry rhetoric, typical of modern-day populists. Whereas Mr. Duque has placed his anchor on another politician, Mr. López Obrador has placed his anchor on himself. It’s easy to understand the appeal of political anchors — they are comfort zones. Leaders rely on them when the going gets tough, that is, when the system resists, and these leaders will surely face resistance. The problem is that the political anchors chosen by these two leaders can be toxic in their own right. Right-wing toughness is too inflexible and blind to civil society; leftist rage is too scornful of institutions and market forces. For these leaders to be less polarizing, they will need to do some de-anchoring. Mr. Duque will need to move away from Mr. Uribe’s brand of conservatism, and Mr. López Obrador from his narcissism. De-anchoring is always hard, but it will be harder in Mexico than in Colombia. The factors that can help in this process — electoral laws, checks and balances, and external incentives — are weaker in Mexico. Electoral laws, specifically, runoff elections, are conducive to de-anchoring. They force would-be populists to make concessions to other political groups, which injects pluralism into their coalitions and moderates personality cults. It’s no coincidence that in Latin America, with its history of populism, there are few cases of populist administrations emerging (or surviving in office) from runoff elections. Mr. Duque won in a runoff election, which forced him to seek support outside his coalition. But in Mexico, as in the United States, runoff elections don’t exist at a presidential level. Mr. López Obrador’s governing coalition will be less open to compromise than Mr. Duque’s. Institutions of checks and balance are stronger in Colombia. Since its famously decentralizing 1991 Constitution, Colombia has made strides in fortifying Congress, the courts, the press and social movements. In Mexico, in contrast, institutions of checks and balances have atrophied as a result of exploding crime and self-serving politicians, including presidents, who have politicized institutions to protect themselves from corruption investigations. Finally, external forces play a role. Although populism is always a homegrown phenomenon, it can nonetheless inflate or deflate in response to external stimuli. When confronted with opposite and belligerent populism from abroad, homegrown populism expands. Not coincidentally, Mr. Uribe thrived in the late 2000s when left-wing populism was still flourishing in neighboring Venezuela under Hugo Chávez, himself quite belligerent toward Mr. Uribe. It is Mexico rather than Colombia that will now face an opposite and belligerent populist threat from an important neighbor, the United States. It’s no secret that President Trump’s own right-wing populism nitpicks on Mexico, blaming it for harmful trade, immigration problems and law enforcement failures. Mr. Trump’s policies toward Mexico are the most antagonistic of any American president since the early 20th century. Mexico will be surrounded, if not suffocated, by this right-wing populism from the United States. This will inflame leftist populism. One piece of good news is that in recent weeks both Mr. Duque and Mr. López Obrador have become aware of the need to de-anchor. Colombia’s president-elect has promised to be “gentle” toward guerrillas who are demobilizing, and Mr. López Obrador has assembled a respectable economic team to signal that he will be more policy-savvy. Regrettably, de-anchoring takes more than personal pledges. Electoral rules, institutions of checks and balance, and external factors all matter. In Colombia, these forces point toward a possible, though not inevitable, de-anchoring; in Mexico, toward entrenchment.