When my great-grandfather Henry Clay Frick passed away in 1919, he left his Upper East Side home and all of its contents, namely his renowned private art collection, to the public. Today, his former residence is better known as the Frick Collection, an iconic sanctuary where the public can experience masterpieces in an authentic and intimate setting. The collection stands apart in New York’s bustling cultural landscape because of this quietude, a respite from the hectic experience of New York art museums, just as Henry Clay Frick wished through his will. Unfortunately, that serenity is under threat. The Frick Collection has recently announced an expansion plan that would see some of its historic and landmark elements destroyed and its cherished atmosphere lose out to overzealous commercialization. This proposal calls for significant and detrimental additions to the Frick — such as a seven-story expansion of the art reference library extending nearly 25 feet alongside the Russell Page Garden, a two-story addition above the renowned music room with three glass-and-bronze links to the library and a glass-and-bronze rooftop cafe almost directly above the Frick Collection’s front door that would include a new, larger gift shop. The plan further creates a “dedicated education center” and an underground 220-seat auditorium. All of these spaces would expand the Frick’s commercial footprint and eliminate the John Russell Pope-designed music room entirely. While the Frick has claimed that it will fully restore the landmark Russell Page Garden, the proposal tells a different story. The expanded library building and new education center would erase Russell Page’s signature, illusionary techniques on the north wall used to visually elongate his viewing garden — four “blind” latticed windows, which would be replaced with glass. The existing cornices on the library’s north wall would be removed, as would the all-important tree-filled planter behind the wall that draws the eye through the garden into a space beyond. Worse still, even though Henry Clay Frick bestowed this parting gift to the public, it is the public that has been denied a true voice in evaluating this proposal. On May 29, just a few weeks after the Frick’s plan was made public, the Landmarks Preservation Commission held the first and only public hearing on the proposed changes. Despite having little time to prepare over the Memorial Day weekend, numerous neighbors and advocates turned out to voice their concerns. As a result, the commission chose not to approve the expansion and requested the Frick return with revisions. In this case, the process worked as it should. My understanding, however, is that a revised application may be reconsidered by the Landmarks Preservation Commission as early as Tuesday, June 26 — a “public meeting” at which the public to whom Henry Clay Frick gave his collection will not be permitted to testify. This updated proposal, first made available to the public on June 12, does little to address any of the concerns raised in the May 29 hearing or in the more than 300 letters that New Yorkers have submitted to the L.P.C. commissioners during the past two weeks alone. This maneuver suggests that the Frick Collection wants to fast-track this process. As it pertains to the Frick application, all public testimony has been prematurely closed, and in this sense the fairness of the L.P.C. process has failed. I have watched anxiously as the Frick Collection has over the past 20 years embarked on a museum-like decorative arts acquisition program of hundreds of items. Henry Clay Frick’s own collection has often been forced into storage or otherwise out of the public view to accommodate these newly acquired pieces and other outside exhibitions. But this recent plan presents a new and irrevocable threat. I hope that the L.P.C. will not sit idly by as the Frick attempts to turn into another commercial New York art museum. New York City already has many of these institutional art museums. But there is, and will only ever be, one Frick Collection. To be clear: I am not blindly opposed to development. I welcome the opportunity to explore how best to accommodate the Frick Collection’s programmatic needs. In fact, a coalition called Stop Irresponsible Frick Development has re-engaged the architect David Helpern to develop an alternative proposal for the redevelopment. (In 2015, Mr. Helpern was hired for a similar purpose by a group called Unite to Save the Frick, which was opposed to the collection’s earlier expansion efforts.) Mr. Helpern’s plan, if given the time to be developed, would offer less drastic alternatives — which included repurposing a derelict bowling alley and other basement facilities and further expanding the Frick’s subterranean footprint beneath the library building. I want the collection to thrive and for everyone to have the opportunity to immerse themselves in Henry Clay Frick’s world. I am speaking not just for myself but also for many family members, preservationist colleagues and friends. I reject, however, the current Frick assumption that the best way to accommodate its needs is by demolishing and only partially restoring the Russell Page Garden and doing away with the historic music room. I cannot agree with anyone who contends that a rooftop cafe with an expanded gift shop and other entertainment facilities that will most likely be rented out for revenue-generating events are essential to the programmatic needs of a historic house museum. And I think it is wrong that the Frick Collection be allowed to ignore the conservationists, open-space activists, architects and neighbors — of whom there are many — who have voiced real concerns about this proposed expansion. Indeed, for each harmful modification proposed by the Frick Collection there exists, in fact, an alternative that would avoid unnecessary elimination of its defining landmark architecture, historic Russell Page Garden and intimate ambience. Let us engage an independent professional to evaluate the feasibility of excavation for proposed new facilities; revisit the possibility of modernizing and repurposing existing underground facilities; purchase the adjacent, 6,000-square-foot building that is currently on the market for less than 10 percent of the anticipated cost of the current proposal; and seek landmark status for the music room, which could just as easily be preserved as a gallery. I cannot say with certainty that each alternative is viable, but in fairness to all I think they merit serious consideration. The June 26 Landmarks Preservation Commission meeting is the most important step in the process, and I implore the L.P.C. to refrain from approving this irreversible plan and allow the community and the Frick Collection to explore less destructive alternatives.