Government officials cannot discriminate on the basis of race or religion. Except when they can, as the Supreme Court reminded us today. The court’s decision to uphold the entry ban illustrates how immigration has become a “Constitution-lite” zone, and the Trump administration’s recent policies prove why that’s not just a bad idea — it can be a horrific one. The contrast between Trump v. Hawaii, handed down on Tuesday, and the court’s recent decision in Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission underscores how presidents have few constraints when they exercise their vast power over immigration. In Masterpiece Cakeshop, the court concluded that the Colorado Civil Rights Commission violated the First Amendment when it attempted to penalize a baker’s refusal to sell a cake to a same-sex couple. The court found that the commission’s decision-making process was infected by religious hostility because one commissioner had expressed the belief that it is “despicable” to invoke religion to harm others. In Trump v. Hawaii, however, the court declined to reach a similar conclusion about the decision-making process that led to the entry ban. The majority of the justices avoided saying the entry ban was tainted by religious animus, even though President Trump had promised a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States and declared “Islam hates us.” Nor did the majority conclude that the entry ban failed to display religious neutrality, even though the first iteration of the entry ban warned of “violent ideologies” and contained an explicit preference for non-Muslim minorities in a country with a majority-Muslim population. In explaining its 5-4 decision, the majority invoked a set of legal rules that limit the ability of the federal courts to assess decisions related to immigration, and specifically, determinations about who may enter the United States. These rules have their roots in century-old decisions embracing the “plenary-power doctrine,” which gives the political branches, and in recent times the president in particular, something of a blank check over immigration matters. The plenary-power decisions are somewhat infamous among legal scholars. One of them, Chae Chan Ping v. United States, known as the Chinese Exclusion Case, addressed a law that excluded persons of Chinese origin, much like the current executive order does. No one doubted that the law at issue in that 1889 case was rooted in naked racism, and the court ultimately upheld the law by itself embracing that racism. The opinion warned of “foreigners of a different race in this country, who will not assimilate with us” and “be dangerous to its peace and security.” That fearmongering set the stage for the court’s declaration that Congress and the executive branch have almost a free hand over immigration and that courts would not second-guess their decisions, even when they reek of xenophobia. The court repeated this reasoning four years later in Fong Yue Ting v. United States, when it confronted a law requiring Chinese laborers to corroborate their residence in the United States with at least one white witness. The court upheld the law, again emphasizing the broad authority that political branches have over immigration and again interweaving that idea with blatant racism: The court explained the “great embarrassment, from the suspicious nature” of Chinese witnesses whose “loose notions … of the obligation of an oath” would infect judicial proceedings. The racial — and racist — origins of the plenary-power doctrine are there for everyone to see. Those words appear in the pages of Supreme Court opinions. Yet despite the history of the plenary-power doctrine, the court still relies on it when giving the political branches such sweeping authority over immigration. [For another view, read an op-ed arguing that the Court ruled correctly in the travel ban case, but that Congress should step in to limit presidential power.] The decision in Trump v. Hawaii did so explicitly. The section of the opinion rejecting the plaintiffs’ First Amendment claim began with an explanation about why the entry-ban case differs from other First Amendment challenges. The difference, the court said, is that “the admission and exclusion of foreign nations is a ‘fundamental sovereign attribute exercised by the Government’s political departments largely immune from judicial control.’” The court quoted a passage from a prior case that relied on both the Chinese Exclusion Case and Fong Yue Ting to justify the idea that immigration is insulated from judicial review. Plenary power includes the ideas that courts have a limited ability to oversee immigration decisions by Congress and the president and that constitutional constraints on the government, like the First Amendment, are weaker when it comes to immigration. The court now justifies the broad authority of the political branches over immigration in terms other than naked racism. But papering over the racial origins of the political branches’ sweeping immigration authority can do only so much. While the ideas behind the plenary-power doctrine may no longer be acceptable (at least in certain circles), invoking the president’s near plenary authority over immigration allowed the court, in effect, to turn a blind eye to racism. How else to interpret Mr. Trump’s announcement, as a candidate, that he had a plan for a “total and complete shutdown” of Muslims entering the United States. Or his statement after signing the entry ban that “we all know what that means.” He’s right; we do. Which is why the entry-ban case shows how the plenary-power doctrine enables presidents and Congress to get away with blatant racism in immigration decisions. As Justice Sonia Sotomayor observed in her dissent, the majority “blindly” accepted “the government’s misguided invitation to sanction a discriminatory policy motivated by animosity toward a disfavored group, all in the name of a superficial claim of national security.” Of course, the court didn’t put it that way. Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. merely observed in his majority opinion that “unlike the typical” First Amendment case, the entry-ban “plaintiffs seek to invalidate a national security directive regulating the entry of aliens abroad.” The majority interpreted the executive branch’s broad authority over immigration to forbid the courts to meaningfully scrutinize the president’s motives. Instead, the court insisted, it was confined to a more “circumscribed judicial inquiry,” considering the order at face value and upholding it “so long as it can reasonably be understood” to have a legitimate justification. Under that standard, the court upheld the entry-ban proclamation, because it was “expressly premised on legitimate purposes: preventing entry of nationals who cannot be adequately vetted and inducing other nations to improve their practices.” According to the majority, that made the proclamation different from the notorious order that it upheld in Korematsu v. United States, the 1944 decision permitting the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II. The order in Korematsu forcibly relocated American citizens to internment camps “solely and explicitly on the basis of race,” the court said. The text of the proclamation, by contrast, “says nothing about religion,” even though everything else about the proclamation oozed religious animosity. The last 18-plus months have underscored why legal doctrines that free the political branches of constitutional constraints in immigration are no longer defensible. At best, unconstrained power risks abuses; at worst, it leads to open and unapologetic abuses. Every day the Trump administration provides us a case study in how unchecked power over immigration risks humanitarian crises and moral wrongs. The administration was, and perhaps still is, forcibly separating young children from their parents at the border with no apparent plan for reuniting them. It is criminally prosecuting people seeking asylum in the United States from unthinkable violence in their home countries. And it is making it extremely difficult for undocumented women in its custody to see medical professionals to perform abortions that will end pregnancies, some of which are a result of rape. The Trump administration faces lawsuits that challenge these and other policies. In fighting off those challenges, the administration frequently argues that it has comparatively greater authority over immigration and that immigrants have relatively fewer constitutional protections, compared with other areas of law. Today, the Supreme Court told the president he is right and that courts will not stop him from subjecting migrants to discriminations and abuses that this administration could not impose on citizens. The question is whether the rest of us will step up and stop the administration instead.