This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. The Supreme Court keeps making it harder for Americans to exercise their most basic democratic right: casting a vote that matters. The court made two decisions yesterday that damaged voting rights. It upheld gerrymandered election maps in Texas, ignoring evidence that the maps were drawn to minimize the power of minority voters. And it declined to take up a North Carolina gerrymandering case. The Texas ruling, which was 5 to 4, is another example of what I call a Merrick Garland decision — in which the result almost certainly depended on Senate Republicans’ refusal to let President Obama fill an open court seat in 2016. It’s a terribly partisan combination: Republican appointees have a 5-4 majority on the court only because of the unprecedented actions of Republican senators. The five Republican appointees then vote together to make it easier for Republican candidates to win an outsize number of legislative seats. “This is only the latest in a string of cases that have either upheld Republican efforts to rig the electoral system through things like partisan gerrymandering and voter purges, or at the very least delayed deciding on the question while those tactics remain in force,” writes Paul Waldman in The Washington Post. At Scotusblog, Amy Howe breaks down the legal issues in the Texas case — and points out an unusual aspect of Justice Sonia Sotomayor’s dissent: “In a blistering final paragraph that closed with the phrase ‘I dissent,’ rather than the ‘I respectfully dissent’ often used by the justices, Sotomayor protested that today’s ruling ‘does great damage to’ the right ‘to equal participation in our political processes.’ ‘Not because it denies the existence of that right, but because it refuses its enforcement.’” The court’s current term, says University of Texas law professor Steve Vladeck, “is shaping up to be one of its most ideologically one-sided (and consistently conservative) sessions in a long time.” What can be done about all of these attacks on voting rights? As I argued in my column yesterday, anyone who cares about these rights — Democrat, Republican or independent — should keep pushing in the other direction at the state and local levels. In The Times. The Opinion section yesterday launched a three-part series of satirical video cartoons, by legendary animator Bill Plympton. The cartoons combine real audio of President Trump with hand-drawn animations by Plympton.