 In 2010, King Albert II of Belgium, in a speech at the Royal Palace in Brussels, defined his people’s characteristics. They were, he said, modest, open, creative, pragmatic and good at compromise. They also possessed “the ability not to take ourselves too seriously.”  The talents he identified can help explain the mixed reaction with which Belgians greeted the victories last week in their first two World Cup matches. On paper, the Red Devils, as the national team is known, is packed with stars and could be this year’s champions. But few in Belgium have faith they will win. They expect matches against tougher opponents to lead to disappointment — and they would cope just fine with it.  Still, crowds gathered in front of large screens in bars and squares cheering Belgium’s easy victories over Panama and Tunisia. Fans started appearing in red plastic devil horns and flying the country’s black, yellow and red flag from cars and windows, albeit sometimes the wrong way (the black panel should be on the left). They were driven, at least in part, by a sweeping marketing campaign by the beer company Jupiler, which temporarily changed the name of its product to “Belgium,” handing out flags and T-shirts across the country. Such displays of patriotism are otherwise rare in a country where, as the old joke has it, the national identity is to have no national identity.  This, after all, is the nation where 11 years ago, the future prime minister, Yves Leterme, when asked if he knew Belgium’s anthem, “La Brabançonne,” started singing “La Marseillaise,” the anthem of France. “It’s not a place of puffed-chest patriotic pride but of tongue-in-cheek pragmatism and self-deprecation,” Emma Beddington, an English writer and longtime Brussels resident, told me.  Ward Daenen, an editor at De Morgen, one of the country’s smaller Flemish dailies, explained: “Do you know the Flemish expression, happy with a dead sparrow? It means being happy with nothing. That is how we Belgians are.” But as he began to consider the implications of the team’s swaggering assurance against Tunisia on Saturday, his voice started to trail off. “Will we start wanting something more than a dead sparrow? If we think the team will win and it doesn’t win, we will be unhappy. These nice guys are going to teach us to be unhappy.”  Belgian humility is rooted in the country’s complex history and culture. It is small and usually plays the role of facilitator. The one time the country’s rulers tried to break this pattern to stop being, as King Leopold II put it, “a small country with small horizons,” it led to the catastrophe of his brutal rule over a swath of central Africa in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. More than a century later, Belgium’s colonial legacy has acquired a more benign aspect. Several Red Devils stars, including the striker Romelu Lukaku and the squad captain, Vincent Kompany, have Congolese backgrounds.  Regional and local identities are strong, and the rivalry between the country’s main languages, French and Dutch, remains as fierce as ever. But on the national soccer team, which also includes players of Moroccan, Malian, Kosovar and Spanish backgrounds, the problem is solved by having a Spanish manager who communicates with his players in English.  In Belgian politics, the big story of the past 40 years is Flemish emancipation from the dominance of the French-speaking elite. The attitude as summed up by generals in World War I who it is said addressed their troops in French before adding, dismissively, “Et pour les Flamands, la même chose” (“And for the Flemish, the same thing”) is long gone.  French-speaking Wallonia, with its coal and steel, used to dominate economically. But after the death of those industries in the 1980s, Flanders moved ahead. Some 80 percent of Belgian exports now come from that region. And while the country has a French-speaking prime minister, his ruling coalition is made up of four parties: one French and three Flemish, with the Flemish nationalist party, the N.V.A., the largest.  Historically, the land on which the modern state sits was frequently invaded, with bigger powers fighting wars on its territory. The Belgian landscape still bears the jagged scars of the battles of World War I. Even independence (from the Dutch) after the revolution of 1830 was largely the work of outsiders.  “We were constructed as a sort of buffer zone between English, Germans and French,” the Flemish novelist Ivo Victoria told me recently. “We’ve always been this small country almost surprised to find ourselves an independent country.” This feeling of insecurity was exacerbated by Belgium’s relationship with its self-confident neighbors in the Netherlands. The Dutch-speakers of Flanders, in particular, used to look up to these neighbors. (The feeling was not reciprocated. The Dutch told jokes about supposedly stupid Belgians and saw the country merely as a place to pass through on the way to France.)  This dynamic also persisted on the soccer pitch. From the late 1960s onward, Holland produced superstars of the game; played daring, stylish “total football”; and reached three World Cup finals. Belgium, by contrast, tended to do poorly and deployed a dour, defensive game. In their best tournaments — they reached the World Cup semifinal in 1986 and the European championship final in 1980 — they played a hardworking, defensive, counterpunching style. Even the success of the greatest Dutch team of all, the Johan Cruyff-led side of 1974, came at Belgium’s expense. In the decisive qualifying match between the two countries, the referee wrongly disallowed Belgium’s last-minute winning goal. In the past decade, their positions have reversed. The Dutch failed to qualify for the current tournament in Russia and find themselves bereft of stars. Belgium, meanwhile, has adopted a quasi-Dutch offensive style and boasts what has been described as a “golden generation” of world-renowned talents, such as Eden Hazard and Kevin de Bruyne. Belgians are not entirely comfortable with this change of status. Luc Devoldere, editor of the journal The Low Countries, tells me that Belgians traditionally felt better and achieved better results when they saw themselves as underdogs. But when the Red Devils play with verve and power, as they have against two weak teams in Russia, the underdog label seems no longer to fit. Belgium doesn’t need reminding that at the last World Cup they exited feebly, beaten by Argentina, a finalist. And two years ago, in the European Championship, when the Red Devils resembled a disjointed collection of individuals rather than a coherent team, they lost, ignominiously, 3-1 to Wales. “We had a good laugh about that,” Daenen remembers. “We didn’t lose against Wales, we lost against ourselves.”  Soccer is an unpredictable sport, and it’s possible that the Belgian team will surpass even their own expectations. Fittingly for the nation that was a hotbed of Surrealism, a victory on the world stage may have no effect at all.  “If the Red Devils won, I suppose it could cause an existential crisis of national identity,” Beddington said to me. “What even is Belgium if it’s actually winning?” “Nothing would change fundamentally,” she predicted. “The victory bus would get lost in Brussels’s eternal roadworks, or someone would sing the wrong national anthem. Belgium can’t help being Belgium, and that is the heart of its charm.” David Winner is the author of several books, including “Brilliant Orange: The Neurotic Genius of Dutch Soccer” and “Al Dente: Madness, Beauty and the Food of Rome.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter.