Obscured by the destructive chaos of the Trump administration, a far more chillingly efficient assault on America is underway: a hard march backward to laissez-faire economic policies of a sort not seen since the late 19th century. Last year, Congress did its part by cutting corporate taxes. And on Monday, in Ohio v. American Express, the Supreme Court delivered a big blow to antitrust law and its traditional mission of helping consumers and fostering economic competition. With its five more conservative justices in the majority, the court ruled 5-4 in favor of American Express and its “gag orders” — which forbid merchants that contract with American Express from encouraging customers to use other credit cards — even though these restrictions are blatantly anticompetitive and raise prices for consumers. The court offered a weak, highly abstract decision that masks the economic extremism of its ruling, which will further enrich Wall Street intermediaries at the expense of both merchants and consumers. One of the ways the American economy deviates from textbook capitalism is that prices are often hidden from consumers, interfering with the process by which competition is supposed to work. An example central to the American Express case is how we pay to use our credit cards. In addition to annual fees, interest charges and other, more mysterious fees that consumers pay, credit card companies also levy fees on merchants: usually a flat fee per sale and a commission of 2 percent to 3.5 percent or more. If you spend $200 at a store and use a credit card, you could be sending as much as $7 of that payment to the credit card company. Merchants, no fools, pass those fees on to consumers by making their products more expensive. This yields a credit card “tax” that everyone pays (even those, usually the poor, who don’t have credit cards). There is no reason to expect credit card companies to offer their services free. But the credit card tax paid by American retailers and consumers is the highest in the world. Credit card “swipe” fees account for an estimated $42 billion every year in the United States. The Europeans pay less, because they see this as an obvious market failure and limit the commission to 0.3 percent, meaning that you would pay 60 cents instead of $7 in fees for that $200 purchase. We rely on the “American way” — competition instead of regulation to keep prices lower — but that works only if we prevent companies from thwarting competition. Unfortunately, credit card companies like American Express have managed to stymie fee competition with those gag orders on merchants who contract with them. Merchants are prevented from steering consumers to cheaper options, for example by saying to a customer: “Paying for this microwave with American Express will cost us an extra $5.60. Might you consider using another card if you have one?” If merchants could tell us which option was cheapest, and steer us in that direction, we would all save money. Even just the threat of steering us in that direction could help keep fees down. The trial court in this case, after a full trial, found direct evidence that American Express’s gag orders were anticompetitive and thus an illegal restraint on trade. This included evidence that the gag order allowed American Express to raise its fees 20 times in five years. Nonetheless, the five more conservative justices on the Supreme Court managed to find a way to win this case for American Express. They did so not by contesting the fact that the gag order stymies competition — for that was impossible to disprove. Instead the court put theory ahead of practice in an absurd way: Even though, in practice, American Express hurt competition and inflicted harm on consumers, the court concluded, the company was not, in theory, powerful enough to do so. The logic is ridiculous: You could just as easily say that robbing banks is economically irrational, given the risks involved, and therefore it does not happen. To reach this strained conclusion, the court deployed some advanced economics that it seemed not to fully understand, nor did it apply the economics in a manner consistent with the goals of the antitrust laws. Justice Stephen Breyer’s dissent mocks the majority’s economic reasoning, as will most economists, including the creators of the “two-sided markets” theory on which the court relied. The court used academic citations in the worst way possible — to take a pass on reality. As Justice Breyer points out in his dissent, America’s antitrust laws represent a historic compromise between pure laissez-faire capitalism and state control of the economy. In cases like Ohio v. American Express, the court is rejecting that tradition of compromise and taking us down a path that leads in dangerous directions. Giving freer rein to private economic power has already yielded extreme levels of economic inequality, stoking the fires of social and political dissatisfaction. To break from Congress’s historic compromise in aid of the credit card industry only throws fuel on the fire and represents judicial activism in its most unseemly form.