The great, gradual migration of the human population from the countryside to the city has transformed the world, but we’ve barely begun to reckon with its political implications. Over generations, urbanization has sorted us on the traits — ethnicity, education level, personal temperament — that draw us toward cities or keep us away. The logic of our electoral institutions has always sorted the bulk of American voters into one of two major parties. What’s new is that the sorting dynamic of urbanization now accounts for partisan sorting, too. Democrats have become the party of the multicultural city, Republicans the party of the monocultural country — the party of urbanization-resistant white people. Such a clean partisan break along density lines has thrown our democracy into a crisis of legitimacy and dysfunction. Our federal system of democratic representation has drifted dangerously out of sync with the geographic distribution, demographic makeup and outsize economic role of America’s urbanized population. Our politics is cracking up over the density divide. Big cities and their distinctive interests are suffering a density penalty and need more visibility in our scheme of representation. “As you go from the center of cities out through the suburbs and into rural areas, you traverse in a linear fashion from Democratic to Republican places,” observed Jonathan Rodden, a Stanford political scientist. According to an estimate from Mark Muro of the Brookings Institution, the electorate is typically equal parts Democrat and Republican at about 900 people per square mile. The exact number is higher in more Republican and lower in more Democratic states, but majorities tend to flip from blue to red roughly where commuter suburbs give way to “exurban” sprawl. Higher population density predicts higher Democratic vote share even in small cities in deep-red counties in deep-red states. Mr. Rodden has shown heavy concentrations of Democratic voters in the relatively dense historic cores of cities like Scranton, Pa., and Terre Haute, Ind., that wash out with distance from city hall. So there are really no red states or blue states. There’s compact blue urban density and sprawling red sparseness. Higher population density doesn’t just predict higher Democratic vote share. It also predicts a less white population and a better-educated, higher-skilled, higher-productivity work force. Immigrants and minorities have long congregated in big cities, attracted by the opportunities, services and safety in numbers they supply. America’s Constitution was devised in the 1780s to balance power between free and slave regions in a thoroughly agricultural economy. In an urbanized polity in which a handful of dense, multicultural metro areas contain most of the people and produce most of the wealth and tax receipts, our federal scheme of representation, which effectively gives extra votes to dirt in low-population states, defies both moral and prudential common sense. America’s outdated system of representation allowed Donald Trump and the party of the monocultural country to seize total control of the state with a minority of votes and about 36 percent of the economy. That’s not just a glitch. That’s a disaster. Representative democracy is more than a means for determining public policy. It is more fundamentally an instrument of collective self-defense, a channel through which individuals can combine to peacefully resist domination and press for the equal protection of their rights and vital interests. In the absence of fair political representation, democracy inevitably fails in this defensive function. Donald Trump capriciously suspended DACA, and the nativist Republican minority in Congress derailed attempts to replace it, throwing into limbo the basic security and rights of nearly 800,000 young Americans without papers. A small city’s worth of Dreamers — 123,000 of them — live in Los Angeles County alone. Under Mr. Trump, Immigration and Customs Enforcement has singled out urban Democratic strongholds for terrorizing deportation raids under the pretext that so-called sanctuary policies imperil public safety by attracting and shielding dangerous criminal immigrants. Thousands of peaceful city dwellers have been rounded up, tearing apart families, striking fear into immigrant communities, hobbling criminal investigations and generally sowing dread and disorder. But the issue is not only that people in cities are getting hurt; it’s also that city people are mindful of the interests of marginalized populations outside cities — at the border or in remote state prisons — and would protect them if cities weren’t democratically underrepresented. In her classic essay “The Liberalism of Fear,” the political theorist Judith Shklar argued that the first task of a free society is to stop the coercive state inflicting cruelty and sowing terror. “Systematic fear is the condition that makes freedom impossible,” she wrote, “and it is aroused by the expectation of institutionalized cruelty as by nothing else.” Institutionalized cruelty and systematic fear are precisely what the Trump presidency, and the rigged political system that made it possible, have brought us. The administration’s “zero tolerance” border crackdown has separated thousands of parents from their children, inflicting unspeakable grief and permanent trauma to deter “improper entry,” a misdemeanor of no more gravity than “disorderly conduct.” Many of Mr. Trump’s victims are asylum seekers who have trekked thousands of miles to protect their children from sexual violence and gang conscription, only to have their extraordinary fortitude and love rewarded with sadistic abuse justified by a fake immigration crisis spoken into being through dehumanizing lies. Terrified children, shattered families and an archipelago of invisible gulags for the disappeared are not “the will of the people.” These horrors are the result of the disenfranchised metropolis and perverse, anti-majoritarian legislative rules, which have allowed a minority of mainly small-state representatives in one branch of Congress to stymie repeatedly the overwhelming popular desire to fix our broken immigration system. For instance, in 2013, comprehensive immigration reform passed the Senate by a vote of 68-32, and a majority of the House favored reform, but Republican leadership would not hold a vote on a bill that lacked support from a majority of House Republicans. A Democratic takeover of at least the House in the midterm elections would blunt Mr. Trump’s ability to inflict this sort of cruelty — unless our system’s density penalty allows Republicans to hold it with a minority of votes. It happened in 2012, and election wonks say it has a nearly one-in-three chance of happening again. The problem is structural and demands a structural solution. The place to begin is by acting now to expand representation for big cities and their interests. American federalism vests power in states, and cities are, by and large, administrative conveniences of states with little independent political reality or authority. Congressional districts drawn by state legislatures routinely carve up cities, especially in Republican-leaning states, to dilute the representation of their residents by combining them with dispersed populations on the other side of the density divide. Democratic states should set a precedent and insist on the spatial and political unity of cities by turning big urban areas into large, multi-member districts. For example, instead of splitting up urban Los Angeles into eight or so legislative districts, a single district encompassing most of the city’s population would send the top eight vote-getters from the entire district to Washington. Each would represent all of Los Angeles, more or less — and two or three would likely be Republican. A few heavily urbanized states taking this path would stock the House with a significant block of votes representing cities as unified communities, much as senators represent whole states, ensuring that distinctive urban interests, and groups whose members are concentrated in cities, have defenders in Congress. Moreover, an urban caucus within the House that included a smattering of big-city Republicans would mitigate the threat of polarized, low-density minority rule by discouraging Republican persecution of urban constituencies, incentivizing outreach to socially conservative communities of color and creating a needed platform for free-market ideas in sclerotic big-city Democratic politics. California’s stout protection of its population against the Trump administration’s aggression exemplifies the protective role of democratic representation and the point of states’ rights within the federal system. But cities have few such rights with respect to their state governments. Instead, a wave of Republican states have used “pre-emption” as a tool of control over Democratic municipal authority. Red states have banned their blue cities’ sanctuary policies, minimum-wage hikes and civil rights protections for their gay, lesbian and transgender residents. Democratic state legislatures and big-city mayors should fight back, pressing for statutes and state constitutional amendments that would strengthen municipal “home rule” rights and embody new federalist principles of city-state power sharing. One of the great dangers of hyperpolarization is that it blinds us to threats to the nation that happen to work to the advantage of our partisan tribe. When we’re determined to see the other party as an existential threat, no matter what, we feel compelled to push structural changes that benefit our “tribe.” We need to resist this temptation and patch our democracy to function in an urbanized world without asking for too much assurance that the parties will realign in a way that suits our tastes or that the balance of partisan power will shift in our team’s favor. Families are being torn apart, thousands are packed into squalid prisons, and millions of city-dwelling Americans have been made to suffer under a regime of “institutionalized cruelty” because country people are anxious and city votes count less. Fixing this is far more important than whose team wins when we fix it, because the basic framework of democratic self-defense is far more important than any ephemeral policy. As Judith Shklar sagely said, “without enough equality of power to protect and assert one’s rights, freedom is but a hope.”