This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Who was the last high-profile Democrat incumbent — before last night, that is — to lose a primary? Joe Lieberman, the Connecticut senator, who lost the Democratic nomination for Senate in 2006, thanks largely to his occasional support for President George W. Bush. In the 12 years since, Republicans have endured one nasty primary campaign after another, sometimes felling party giants (like Eric Cantor) and sometimes costing the party winnable Senate seats (as has happened in Delaware, Indiana and Missouri). Democrats, meanwhile, have largely avoided such internecine battles. Then last night happened. Joseph Crowley, a potential successor to Nancy Pelosi as Democratic leader of the House, suffered a shocking defeat, to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a 28-year-old member of the Democratic Socialists of America who worked on Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign. Ocasio-Cortez becomes the Democratic nominee in New York’s 14th congressional district, which includes parts of the eastern Bronx and northern Queens. Given how many other states have already held primaries without having big Democratic upsets, I would urge caution about the larger meaning: Crowley’s loss won’t necessarily be followed by a wave of other Democratic upsets. Yet it is yet another sign of the turmoil in American politics today. Many voters are frustrated, and they aren’t willing to accept the same answers they have been hearing for years. The challenge for the Democratic Party is finding a way to speak to this frustration that inspires more voters than it alienates. That’s certainly possible. But it’s not the normal outcome following a shocking primary. My colleague Frank Bruni has just published a column on the race: “What’s indisputable is that Ocasio-Cortez ran a spirited, pointed, smart campaign and that Crowley erred,” he writes. “And voters who feel that they’re overlooked and misunderstood by people versed and immersed in the ways of Washington will sometimes choose disruption.” The editorial board also weighs in: “The liberal base is fired up, showing up at the polls, and may be ignored only at great political risk. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory is a vivid sign of the changing of the guard.” 5-4, 5-4, 5-4 … The Supreme Court issued another partisan ruling yesterday, with all of the Republican appointees on one side and all of the Democratic appointees on the other. This ruling upheld President Trump’s travel ban. It was yet another decision in which the result depended on Senate Republicans’ refusal to allow President Barack Obama to fill a court seat in 2016. In Vox, Ezra Klein says the ultimate responsibility lies with voters: Senate Republicans could do so “because Democrats sat out the 2014 election, letting Republicans amass the votes needed to block Obama’s appointees.” In The Times, Leah Litman argues that the travel ban case is an example of the court’s flawed deference to the presidency on immigration cases. And Peter Schuck of Yale defends the court’s decision, saying that the president deserves deference on national security.