Next time you step from a city street into a traffic-free urban park, taste the air. The leafy tang will purge your palate of the acrid, oily residue of vehicle exhaust. Now listen to the changed soundscape. Away from the smothering mire of engine noise, trees give voice to the wind’s moods, and bird songs weave aural textures in the air. These sensory impressions reveal stories of ecological health and interconnection. With the last private cars being banished from the drives in Central Park starting on Wednesday, these stories just got better. The delicious tastes and sounds of Central Park — and of Prospect Park in Brooklyn, where cars were banned from the loop drive in January — are more than sensory delights; they evince ecological conversations among trees, insects, microbes and people. Such connections are the substance of life. Break them, as car and truck traffic does, and bodies fail, communities fall apart. Nitrous oxide from vehicle exhaust destroys some of the airborne aromas of flowers, befuddling bees so they have difficulty finding their blooms. The ozone that forms in the wake of tailpipes degrades the chemicals that plants use to converse with one another about local conditions. The language of trees is thus silenced. Herbivorous insects — those multitudes that feed vertebrates like birds — find it hard to sniff out their food plants in traffic-polluted air. The insects that prey on these herbivores are also confused by vehicle exhaust, partly because the summoning molecules released by damaged plants are degraded by air pollution. The living world is full of quiet chemical chatter and eavesdropping, but traffic pollution is a cacophony, drowning out the conversations in ecological communities. Banning cars from a park restores connections that had been severed. Birds, too, can lose their life-giving connections amid the noise of traffic. Some species cannot hear the calls of their mates or neighbors, so their populations dwindle. A few species adapt to the new urban soundscape by producing higher-pitched, simpler songs to counteract the domineering noise of the internal combustion engine. But noise-adapted urban birds have higher levels of stress hormones than their rural cousins. These urban birds also find it hard to hear and respond appropriately to neighbors, predators and, for nestling birds, parents. Singing frogs and insects suffer similar noise-induced breakdowns in communication. To remove cars from a park is therefore to create an acoustic space for the beauty of animal song. This soundscape is essential for the vitality of urban wildlife. What is true for trees is also true for people. Only a limited range of human interactions are possible on a street filled with traffic, and these encounters seldom build community. Distancing ourselves in parks from the loud, fast, linear motion of cars creates psychological and social possibilities, promoting social connection. This is true on city sidewalks, too, where street trees create pools of relative tranquillity, places for human interconnection away from the rush of pedestrian flow. The benefits of time away from tailpipes extend to the cellular level. Traffic pollution ravages the wet, vulnerable interior of plant leaves, reducing their growth and making them less resilient in the face of other environmental stresses. Our lungs are not so different, relying for their function on openness to air. When we exercise in a polluted atmosphere, like the runners and cyclists who until now panted alongside cars on Central Park’s drives below 72nd Street on weekdays, the negative effect is magnified: We draw more ozone, carbon monoxide, nitrous oxide, particulates and petroleum hydrocarbons into contact with our cells. Keeping traffic away from places where people exert themselves therefore yields health benefits beyond reduced vehicular collisions. We leave the park with healthier lungs and blood. The car ban delivers benefits even though parks are embedded in a traffic-filled city. Sound intensity and air pollution drop roughly exponentially with distance. The loop-drive closing increases the space between car engine and living body from arm’s length to dozens or hundreds of yards. In addition, trees in parks actively clean particles of pollution from the air and absorb sound. The negative effects of surrounding streets and the remaining park roads — transverses in Central Park and Flatbush Avenue in Prospect Park — are reduced by barriers of walls, trees and partly sunken road beds. These combined social and physiological effects of parks manifest in well-being: Living closer to green space and away from traffic is associated with better bodily and societal health for people and with higher biodiversity. A car-free park also opens the imagination. The petroleum-driven automobile is an evolutionary novelty, barely 150 years old. Human and nonhuman bodies are ill adapted to this newcomer. Yet we’ve remade the world to accommodate these machines and we seldom escape their presence. To spend a little time away from our wheeled, combustive technologies is to nourish our imaginations, giving us a lived experience of a world not dominated by the automobile. A century ago, New York City showrooms were among the first to feed the popular imagination with dreams of automobiles. Now, the city’s parks offer a vision of a future where we orient the city around living communities. After you’ve tasted the refreshed air of Central Park and enjoyed its sylvan sounds, wander over to the Lake. A vigorous dip of your rowboat oars will stir a hidden record of ecological interconnection within the city. The deepest layers of submerged lake mud date from the 19th century and contain the chemical signature of burned wood, a record of the city’s dependence on trees for fuel. Higher in the mud layer, coal remnants dominate the strata deposited in the first half of the 20th century, a chemical memory of the smokestacks that surrounded the park. In those days in the city, every tree leaf and human lung also bore the stain of smoke. Lake sediments from the past half-century are marked with the chemical residues of burned petroleum, as are our bodies and communities. What record will the coming decades scribe into the mud? A car ban in city parks allows us to imagine a more healthful legacy.