This is the third in a series on reducing sexual assault. Last month in New York City, five leaders of organizations that seek to combat sexual assault gathered in a conference room in the headquarters of the New York Police Department. For three days, they read through rape case files from the Special Victims Division. Then they discussed what they saw with the division’s top officials. It is unusual, to say the least, for police investigators to let advocacy groups that often criticize them go through their confidential files. But the department has now held three such twice-yearly audits, with advocates and the police agreeing that they can help the department catch more rapists and treat survivors of rape with more respect. Here’s how it happened, a story that starts in Philadelphia: From at least the late 1970s (probably much earlier) through the 1990s, Philadelphia sex-crime investigators were burying about a third of all rape complaints. Investigators stamped them “unfounded” or “2701-investigation of person” — a code indicating no crime had been committed. The name is misleading; anything labeled “investigation of person” was shelved, not investigated. The downgrading often took place before any investigation. “Individual investigators were given latitude to put it in the ‘investigation of person’ category without supervisory input,” said Michael Boyle, who was a lieutenant in the sex-crimes unit. “That’s where the car wreck took place.” Police failure to investigate rape was — and is — a longstanding global problem. By American standards, Philadelphia took it to extremes. The sex-crime investigators were shelving cases to keep them out of the city’s crime statistics. They were getting rid of the hardest-to-solve cases to keep their clearance rate high and to avoid the cost of a long investigation. When they couldn’t reach a victim by phone, they got rid of her case instead of trying to find her. They rejected cases of victims who were poor women with troubled lives. Juries wouldn’t care, they reasoned. “You’d try to take the slightest discrepancy to try to knock it down to 2701,” George Pennington, who supervised the sex-crimes unit from 1981 to 1988, told The Philadelphia Inquirer. “If it was from a shady part of the city, who’s going to complain? These people are from the inner city.” “Inconsistency in a victim’s story was pretty much the basis for ending the investigation,” Mr. Boyle said. “That was wrong. People recognize better now that inconsistency should be expected — victims’ response to trauma is going to be wide-ranging.” Carol Tracy, the executive director of the Women’s Law Project in Philadelphia, said of the unit, “There were people who were doing their job conscientiously and others who were not.” The problem, she said, was that “there was a general social dismissal that rape just wasn’t that serious: It’s only women, and these things happen.” An investigator who spent 10 years in the sex-crimes unit, Roscoe Cofield, admitted in 2003 that he used to call it the “Lying Bitches Unit,” according to The Inquirer. In 1999, the department’s chief of detectives, John T. Maxwell, told The Inquirer that women sometimes falsely claim rape to get Medicaid to pay for an abortion. In 1999, The Inquirer published a series of articles on the failure of the Philadelphia sex crimes unit, which has since been renamed the Special Victims Unit, to investigate rape. The city had just gotten a new police commissioner, John Timoney, who had been second in command at the New York Police Department. At the urging of the Women’s Law Project, Mr. Timoney ordered a review of all recent shelved cases. He said he was confident that the review would find no rapes — just a messy coding system. He was very wrong. The department reinvestigated 3,117 complaints from 1995 to 1999 that had been dismissed. Nearly 60 percent of them turned out to be crimes — 681 first-degree felony rapes, and 1,141 other crimes. Mr. Timoney, who died in 2016, told the City Council that the unit had treated some women “probably in a godawful manner.” He invited Ms. Tracy to bring advocates for women and children who work on sexual assault into the Special Victims Unit to look through case files. The group spent three days in a Special Victims conference room, reading through about 100 files of cases that had been marked “unfounded.” Names and identifying information were redacted. They were not allowed to carry anything out of the room, keep notes or records, or talk about what they saw. They could simply attach sticky notes with comments when they had a question or found a practice that needed improvement. At the end, the advocates met with the unit’s leadership to go over their findings — and again three weeks later to hear about how problems were being resolved. With each file, the advocates examined whether a real investigation took place. Was everyone interviewed? Was the evidence collected and sent for testing? They looked at notes of victim interviews. Ms. Tracy said that the reviewers typically raise questions in about a quarter of cases. But those questions have changed over time. “In the first review, we saw cases where witnesses weren’t interviewed, where there was no follow-up whatsoever,” she said. Sometimes the interview of the victim would become an interrogation: What were you wearing? Why were you out by yourself? “We don’t see these things any more,” she said. Three police commissioners later, the advocate reviews continue, now covering about 400 cases each year. Today, the issues are more subtle — for example, long delays in interviewing witnesses. The advocate audit was useful for a police force that had lost the public’s confidence. “Timoney was at his wits’ end,” said Chuck Wexler, the executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum. “We keep people’s names and cases confidential — so how could you ever reverse the perception that the Philadelphia police was ‘unfounding’ cases? This was a very innovative, transformational way to prove to the public that rapes were being reported accurately.” Mr. Boyle said that when he started in the sex crimes unit in 1980s, police saw groups that worked on behalf of rape victims “as enemies and feminazis — and they saw cops as enemies.” There was still suspicion when the audits began. “But through the years we developed personal and professional relationships,” he said. Mr. Boyle said the department hoped that advocates would learn about and help to solve difficulties that the investigators faced — including a lack of resources. Indeed, the advocates helped get the sex- crimes unit into a new building; the unit’s old quarters were so cramped that suspects and victims often passed one another in the hallways. Success required both sides to abandon their adversarial views. “It’s not a ‘gotcha,’ it’s a systems improvement,” Ms. Tracy said. “We’re not telling them they’re doing it wrong. We’re asking the question of why they do these things. When they can’t justify it, they realize they’ve got a problem.” The audits have changed rape investigations nationwide. When they started, the F.B.I. defined rape narrowly: the carnal knowledge of a female, forcibly and against her will. That law was written in 1929 and had never been changed. It left out a lot: oral and anal penetration, rape of males and non-forcible rape, to name a few crimes. The Women’s Law Project argued that this narrow definition distorted police investigations: The police had trouble calling incidences of the other acts “real rape” when they didn’t even need to be reported to the F.B.I. unless there had been an arrest. When the F.B.I. finally broadened its definition of rape in 2012, the project’s work had been a major influence. Now, nearly two decades after the birth of the Philadelphia model, it is spreading to other cities. Following an investigation by The Toronto Globe and Mail, seven Canadian police services are starting a Philadelphia-style pilot project. Many other large Canadian cities are starting other kinds of outside reviews of sex-assault cases. In the United States, Mr. Wexler’s police research organization brought the Women’s Law Project into police departments in Chattanooga, Tenn.; Fayetteville, N.C.; Salt Lake City; and Scottsdale, Ariz., to review their case files and departmental policies. These were one-time audits, however, not a continuing review by local advocates. Missoula, Mont., did undertake continuing advocate reviews, under orders from the federal Department of Justice. But only one American police force has adopted the Philadelphia model on its own. Three years ago, Ms. Tracy got a call from Susan Herman, a professor and longtime victims’ advocate who had just become the New York force’s deputy commissioner for collaborative policing. Before Ms. Herman went to law school, she was a volunteer self-defense instructor at a rape crisis center in Philadelphia. She had been following the audit program since its origins and wanted to bring it to New York. Lots of people in the department “were thinking that advocates needed to understand better why we do what we do,” she said in an interview. Ms. Herman said that the audit has changed how the police interview victims. “We’re now used to, as a society, saying that what she was wearing had nothing to do with it,” she said. “But an investigator is going to ask. They want to recognize you on video cameras. They want to know for DNA collection, and to prepare you for trial — where you will be asked. “Advocates have learned that the question is legitimate,” she continued. “We’ve learned how it’s heard — and the value of explaining why we’re asking it.” Mary Haviland, the executive director of the New York City Alliance Against Sexual Assault, who serves as one of the reviewers, would like the program to be expanded to district attorneys’ offices as a way to encourage them to pursue rape cases. “There are so few cases prosecuted,” she said. New York’s police department is more progressive and has far more resources than most others. But there are still hair-raising stories of misconduct by investigators. In March, the city’s Department of Investigation accused the police department of severely understaffing its Special Victims squad — an investigator’s caseloads was typically 20 times that of a homicide investigator — and neglecting cases of acquaintance rape. Ms. Haviland said the report’s findings ring true. “It’s one of the most common complaints we hear — the survivor doesn’t hear back from a detective.” She said advocates support the report’s recommendations, including doubling the current number of 68 Special Victims investigators. The department called the report “inaccurate and misleading” — but immediately announced it was adding 20 detectives and doing a “top to bottom scrub” of the division. Dermot Shea, the department’s chief of detectives, said that by nature, rape by strangers and rape by acquaintances required varying responses. “If we know who the rapist is, it’s a different investigation,” he said. “But in no way is that meant to indicate one is more important. They are all important. There are ample resources available to investigate every crime.”