The day that organized labor has been dreading for several years is finally here. Janus v. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees was decided by a 5-4 majority in favor of Mark Janus, who argued that he should not have to pay a fee to the union that represented employees at his workplace on First Amendment grounds. Justice Samuel Alito, for the majority, agreed, writing, “agency fees cannot be upheld on the ground that they promote an interest in ‘labor peace.’ ” The public sector is, for all intents and purposes, now “right-to-work.” Labor has absolutely no excuse for not knowing this was coming and not having been prepared. Let’s get that out of the way. The bullet has been in the gun for a while now, the groundwork laid with 2014’s Harris v. Quinn, imposing on home health care workers in the public sector the regime that Janus will impose on their union mates in other industries: public-school teachers, social workers, bus drivers, nurses. Labor held its collective breath in 2014, but the court didn’t go all the way, and Justice Alito had to be content at that time to set up the framework, the precedent, for what the court has now done. In 2016, the unexpected death of Antonin Scalia left the Friedrichs v. California Teachers Association case tied, and labor sighed in relief again. [Also read Daniel DiSalvo on how the Court’s decision reins in unions’ political power and Bryce Covert on why workers should fight back.] But that’s more than four years of preparation, and this will be the time when we see whether unions did more than just brace for impact and pare back their budgets. What the banning of the agency shop, known popularly as right-to-work, does is to make it possible for workers to receive the benefits of union bargaining without having to pay fees to the union for its costs. The Supreme Court has declared open season, taking a side against workers’ organizations. That the Janus decision dropped so soon after what by any definition has been a momentous strike wave — mostly by public-school teachers in West Virginia, Oklahoma, Colorado, Arizona, Kentucky and North Carolina but also by 50,000 public employees at the University of California system and others — is probably the best circumstance labor could have hoped for. Workers are standing up and fighting, and they have been doing so in states where right-to-work is already the law, proving that the rules of Janus don’t have to spell death. Union contracts benefit all workers in a given workplace, but the first move by their opponents — who have been preparing for this eventuality for quite a while — will be to tell workers that they can give themselves a raise by no longer paying dues. It was already illegal for unions to compel members to contribute funds used for politics, or for new organizing, but now they can get representation entirely free. The long-term goal is defunding unions, shriveling their political and shop-floor power, to push both political parties deeper into the arms of business and to leave working people with no champions. Yet what is often lost in the conversation around organized labor is that the entire idea behind organizing is that working people are their own best champions. The union is not supposed to be the third party that you call when your boss is being a jerk. The union is what happens when you and your colleagues get together and refuse to work until that boss is gone. Or, in the case of West Virginia, Arizona and Oklahoma teachers, until the state decides to put some money where its never-ending paeans to education are. Labor’s strategy for a while has been to spend heavily on elections, often in service of any Democrat on the ballot; it doubled down on Hillary Clinton in 2016 to little benefit. Bernie Sanders, who did without most unions’ endorsements (the Communications Workers of America and National Nurses United being notable exceptions), has introduced a bill in the Senate that would push labor law dramatically back in the workers’ direction, including by making fair-share fees a requirement, and a range of prominent Democrats have signed on as co-sponsors. But even such a bill will do only so much to revive the labor movement. “After decades of demobilization, many unions have become legalistic, service-focused organizations that overly rely on paid staff to lobby elected officials,” Chris Brooks of the labor organization and publication Labor Notes pointed out. “The results speak for themselves. Few if any pro-union laws have resulted, even in blue states.” There are some signs that labor is thinking about getting tougher on Democrats, or at least thinking about the newly tightened purse strings and where best to spend. Mary Kay Henry of the Service Employees International Union, in a recent interview on the Laura Flanders show, said that S.E.I.U. would be endorsing candidates from now on who were committed to a $15 minimum wage and making unionizing easier, to protecting the Affordable Care Act and supporting Medicare for All, and supporting what she termed common-sense immigration reform. But no candidate has electrified working people from coast to coast the way a wave of teacher strikes did, and though they sprang from weak unions with their backs to the wall, the labor movement can in fact think strategically about how to build and wield its power through what Ms. Henry appropriately called “disruption.” The court has decided that labor peace will no longer be traded for fees; labor can look to West Virginia for an example of what the end of labor peace looks like. As Jane McAlevey, a labor organizer and the author of “No Shortcuts,” argues, health care and education workers in particular — but also public employees in general — have a distinct ability to bring the community together around their demands. They have relationships with the people they serve every day, relationships built on trust and commonality that can build power in the near term — rather than simply hunker down, take the hit and think about the next election. The corporate class isn’t going to wait until November — it is acting now, and its allies on the Supreme Court have dealt labor another body blow. But this is the wrong time for labor to wait, to get hesitant and timid. Union budgets will no doubt take a wallop. But the recent strike wave has reminded us that unions win more when they bargain with politicians from a place of strength. And the power that unions have — the power they have always had — is in people, not in dollars spent.