The Supreme Court just dealt a staggering blow to the L.G.B.T. rights movement. And no, it had nothing to do with wedding cake. While the eyes of most L.G.B.T. advocates this term were concentrated on Masterpiece Cakeshop v. Colorado Civil Rights Commission, the legal ruling was decidedly narrow. The court’s 5-4 decision today in Janus v. American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, however, will have immediate and lasting implications for the livelihoods of queer people. In Janus, the court ruled, on First Amendment grounds, that public-sector employees who do not join their workplace’s labor union cannot be required to pay “fair share fees” to cover the costs of collective bargaining, even though all unions have an obligation to represent paying members and nonmembers alike. Because union membership today is five times higher in the public sector than in the private sector, the ruling is expected to drain organized labor’s already diminished coffers. Today’s decision will weaken the power of more than five million public workers in the remaining 22 states that allow unions to collect fees. And since public- and private-sector employees often share the same parent union (such as the A.F.T., the S.E.I.U. and the U.A.W.), the Janus decision is likely to deplete resources for worker organizing in private industries, too. What does any of this have to do with L.G.B.T. rights? State and local governments employ an estimated one million people who identify as L.G.B.T. Without funds for unions to sustain services and organizing, L.G.B.T. employees are at risk: In the 29 states lacking full protections against employment discrimination for sexual orientation and gender identity, a collective bargaining agreement with a nondiscrimination provision is often a worker’s only refuge. Even in states or in companies that do offer protections, most nonunion workers in the private sector must sign arbitration clauses, which give them little chance to defend their rights in court. The Supreme Court, compounding the problem, once again upheld the enforceability of mandatory arbitration clauses in May. Union workers can at least negotiate against forced arbitration and use grievance procedures if they experience prejudice in the workplace. Those closest to the issue know the health of organized labor and the enforcement of anti-discrimination protections are inextricably linked. In January five of the country’s leading L.G.B.T. advocacy organizations joined to submit an amicus brief in support of a union’s right to collect fees. They relied on research demonstrating the vital role that unions have played in supporting L.G.B.T. people on and off the job. Unions have long been ahead of the curve on L.G.B.T. issues. Through collective bargaining agreements with employers, union activists were pioneers of nondiscrimination protections, domestic partner benefits and transgender-inclusive health care coverage that became models for other contracts as well as public policy. As early as 1974, librarians in Seattle and municipal bus drivers in Ann Arbor, Mich., won protections against discrimination based on sexual orientation in their union contracts. In the early ’80s, union members at The Village Voice laid the groundwork for domestic partner benefits when they negotiated the inclusion of “spouse equivalents” in their employee health plan; and unionized workers at a New Jersey industrial laundry won the first known contractual protection for “change of sex” after a co-worker complained of harassment upon her return from gender reassignment surgery. In the early 2000s, unionized graduate student employees at the University of Michigan won coverage for medically necessary transgender surgeries. Organized labor has also played a crucial role in the L.G.B.T. movement’s most recent victories. Labor unions donated millions of dollars to campaigns for marriage equality, such as the effort to defeat California’s Proposition 8 in 2008. Major unions also joined forces to file amicus briefs framing marriage equality as a workers’ rights issue in The United States v. Windsor’s successful challenge to the Defense of Marriage Act. Some of these pro-L.G.B.T. moves made by unions are exactly the types of activity that nonmember workers object to. The continued weakening of unions also poses a challenge for the disproportionate number of L.G.B.T. people working to secure a basic economic footing. The popular image of the L.G.B.T. community is that of affluent urban consumers, but the reality is that queer people — especially those who are women, transgender, gender nonconforming or people of color — are more likely to live in poverty than heterosexual and cisgender people. Transgender Americans in particular are almost four times as likely to have a household income under $10,000 per year. Further contraction of union membership is likely to amplify this inequality. By setting industrywide standards, unions have been able to win measurable wage and benefit advances not only for their members but also for nonunion workers. They have also used their influence to advocate for social welfare and insurance programs that lift people out of poverty. As unions have declined, however, socioeconomic inequality has markedly increased. After Janus, we should expect that trend to continue and for L.G.B.T. workers to be among the hardest hit. For several years, the L.G.B.T. rights movement has felt almost unstoppable, as marriage equality became the law of the land and nondiscrimination efforts steadily progressed. Masterpiece Cakeshop broke the winning streak, and with Janus we sustain another hard loss.