Is President Vladimir Putin of Russia really willing to go to war with the West? If we are to believe Russian state propaganda, the answer is a resounding yes. Mr. Putin is very aggressive in his foreign policy, and whenever he is opposed, he immediately takes umbrage. The Kremlin throws its weight around by murdering people with nerve gas agents and wreaking havoc where it can, be it Syria, Ukraine or Facebook. If it is caught red-handed, it complains of a “witch hunt” and puts out ridiculous counter-theories about what happened. One example: saying that a father who was once a Russian spy and his daughter, both of whom nearly died in London from exposure to a Russian-made nerve agent, were instead  poisoned by a nerve agent injected by perfidious Britons after the two victims reached a hospital. There’s no way for the Kremlin to lose this game: When the free world yields to the Kremlin, the gain to Russia is used as a steppingstone to a new attack; when the West stands fast against a Russian provocation, it feeds the Kremlin’s domestic propaganda — as evidence of the West’s “double standards” and innate hostility to Russia. By now, Russian dreams of challenging the rest of the world militarily have become the main theme of state propaganda. In May, when Russia celebrated the anniversary of victory over Nazi Germany in World War II, “We can do it again” was the most popular slogan — in other words, “We can once again storm Berlin.” But think about it. Can Russia really storm Berlin again? Is it even willing to try? Does Mr. Putin really believe he can win a short and glorious war? Or is he just bluffing? Let’s look more closely. On Feb. 8 at Deir al-Zour, Syria, a number of Russians who are believed to have been mercenaries — perhaps dozens, perhaps 200 — were reported killed during American airstrikes. The Kremlin often sees offense where none is intended. So it was reasonable to expect it to hit the roof. Instead, it remained silent, except for denying there had been any Russian soldiers at Deir al-Zour. Two months later, President Trump ordered airstrikes against Syrian chemical weapons facilities, and this time the Kremlin put on a great show. Its ambassador to Lebanon, Alexander Zasypkin, in a comment broadcast by Al-Manar, a TV network controlled by Hezbollah, issued a warning that American  missiles fired at Syria would be shot down and the launch sites targeted. The American attack got full coverage on Russian state TV, and later the Russian General Staff put forward a ludicrous claim that the Russian antimissile defense had shot down 71 American missiles out of 103. “The missiles were destroyed by Syrian air defense systems S-125, S-200, B-uk, Kvadrat and Osa,” claimed Col. Gen. Sergei Rudskoy. “This is a testimony to the effectiveness of Syrian weapon systems.” All of this projected an awesome picture of Russian military might for Russian TV viewers. Well, it was all a lie. In its initial reporting, the Pentagon said that of 59 American missiles launched, 58 had struck their targets. Subsequent reports, while somewhat varied, confirmed that the initial claim was not far off the mark. In reality, Russia was careful not to shoot down a single American missile, let alone sink any American ships. Which left Mr. Trump in a position to claim he had stared Mr. Putin down, using his skills at dealing with international bullies — not surprising, since he is quite a bully himself. There was more to come. On May 10, a month after that attack, Israel wiped out in a single airstrike “almost all of the Iranian infrastructure in Syria,” according to the Israeli defense minister, Avigdor Lieberman. Among other items destroyed were five Iranian air defense systems with distinctly un-Persian names like Dvina and Buk — the very systems that General Rudskoy had said performed so well against American missiles. To this humiliating defeat, there was no Kremlin reaction at all. This is telling. The Israelis have repeatedly said they won’t allow Iran to turn Syria into a “forward base” against Israel. In other words, Israel will never tolerate the presence there of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps. Unfortunately for the Kremlin, the Revolutionary Guards’ presence in Syria is all that keeps the regime of President Bashar al-Assad alive. If he falls, it will mean the end of the Kremlin’s game there and a personal humiliation for President Putin. So why didn’t the Kremlin protest? Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel had been the only Western leader to visit Moscow on May 9, Russia’s Victory Day. The Kremlin’s propaganda machine has made this an extraordinarily hyped-up event, a day when every television screams “We can do it again” while families across Russia parade with photographs of ancestors who fought in World War II — the so-called Immortal Regiment. Not only did Mr. Netanyahu visit Moscow, he also marched alongside Mr. Putin on Red Square, brandishing a portrait of a Russian Jew who fought heroically in the war. This was just a day before the military debacle in Syria, when Syria’s Russian-manufactured air defense systems failed to thwart Israel’s attack. These days, Israel is the rare Western-oriented country still on friendly terms with Russia. So we can surmise that Mr. Netanyahu used his May 9 promenade to inform Mr. Putin of the impending showdown with the Iranians. That would have given Mr. Putin a choice: Stay friendly with Israel or raise hell. In any case, he chose the first. The next day, the Buk air defense missile system, which dates to the 1960s, didn’t do so well against Israeli F-16s. “We can do it again”? No, not quite. Supplying an ally with equipment so outdated signals that we can’t. These three events illustrate that despite his bluster, Mr. Putin is keen to avoid any direct military confrontation with the West. He doesn’t want a war likely to be neither short nor easy to win. What he wants is a television war — a computer simulation — with all the public relations advantages of being at war and none of its downsides. This is a fatal flaw in any strategy designed to bring Russia into a clash with the West. You can’t really go to war without being ready to go to war. When Hitler remilitarized the Rhineland he meant business. He didn’t want war just then, but he might well have fought, had he been challenged. With him, it was not just bluff. With Mr. Putin it is. Maybe he could survive another Deir al-Zour, and then another, but he cannot survive 100 Deir al-Zours. His image as a strongman would be shot to pieces. So it’s not really the West that should fear a conventional military engagement with the Kremlin. It’s the other way around.