It is hardly news that President Trump has deliberately provoked liberal outrage, as a candidate and as president. But in case anyone is still wondering whether his inflammatory language is the result of design or impulse, recent comments from current and former White House strategists are revealing. Last month, an unabashed Stephen Miller, Trump’s ever-calculating White House aide, described this tactic to the Atlantic as “constructive controversy — with the purpose of enlightenment.” “Our thing is to throw gasoline on the resistance,” Steve Bannon, former chief strategist to Trump, told Vanity Fair last December. “I love it. When they talk about identity politics, they’re playing into our hands.” Trump and his allies are capitalizing on a decades-long fight over immigration policy that they believe will galvanize more voters on the right than on the left, generating sufficient enthusiasm among Trump’s supporters to counter an energized Democratic electorate. The unpleasant reality is that a number of recent analyses based on psychological, sociological and political research provide a logical basis for the incendiary Trump-Miller-Bannon strategy. While Trump told reporters in January, “I am the least racist person you have ever interviewed,” he and his loyalists believe that they will thrive on repeated charges from the left that he and those who vote for him are racist. Those charges — perhaps paradoxically — serve to intensify the resentment of conservatives and Republicans toward liberals. Trump’s rhetoric — migrants “infest” and “invade our country” — is intended not only to intensify the anti-immigrant views of his supporters, but also to encourage liberals and Democrats to accuse him and his supporters of bigotry. Trump’s tactics are based on the conviction of many of his voters that opposition to immigration is not a form of racism. They deeply resent being called racist for anti-immigrant views they consider patriotic and, indeed, principled. Most Democrats and liberals, as the accompanying chart shows, do believe that opposition to immigration is racist. The chart is based on responses to a question in a December 2017 survey conducted by Eric Kaufmann, a professor of political science at the University of London. Kaufmann is the author of the forthcoming book, “Whiteshift: Populism, Immigration and the Future of White Majorities” and a related 2017 paper, “ ‘Racial Self-Interest’ is not Racism.” The question Kaufmann posed in a YouGov survey of 2,600 Americans went as follows: A white American who identifies with her group and its history supports a proposal to reduce immigration. Her motivation is to maintain her group’s share of America’s population. Is this person: 1) just acting in her racial self-interest, which is not racist; 2) being racist; 3) don’t know. Among white voters who backed Hillary Clinton, 73.2 percent said it was racist to support immigration reduction in order to maintain the white share of America’s population. This rose to 91.3 percent among white Clinton supporters with postgraduate degrees. Among whites casting ballots for Trump, 11.2 percent said support for immigration reduction was racist, a number that fell to 5.5 percent among white Trump voters without college degrees. The gap between the most well-educated Clinton supporters and the least well-educated Trump supporters is stark — 91.3 percent to 5.5 percent. In other words, the very definition of racism is deeply contested. Ashley Jardina, a political scientist at Duke, argues in her 2017 paper “The White Backlash to ‘Crying Racism’: How Whites Respond to Calling Racial Preferences Racist” that Allegations of racism no longer work to reduce support for the target of the accusation. Instead, such accusations are now tantamount to ‘crying wolf’ and have the opposite of their intended effect — whites are subsequently more likely to express racially conservative policy preferences or to condone the target of the accusation. According to Jardina, the vast majority of white Americans who feel threatened by the country’s rising levels of racial and ethnic diversity are not members of the K.K.K. or neo-Nazis. They are much greater in number, and far more mainstream, than the white supremacists who protested in Virginia. In response to a request to elaborate on her argument, Jardina emailed back: I think it’s absolutely reasonable that many whites don’t think they hold racially prejudiced beliefs, even though by some social science measures, we think they do. Thus, when they’re accused of being “racist,” some whites either see the accusation as disingenuous, or they see it as a personal, unfounded attack, and they become defensive. As a result, Jardina writes in her original paper, Trump “does potentially benefit from accusing his opponents of playing the race card.” The danger “of this new era, in which the new political strategy is to accuse elites of falsely making charges of racism,” Jardina argues, is that it may be increasingly difficult, if not impossible, to effectively condemn politicians when they do in fact attempt to race bait, or when they express views that are racist or support policies that detrimental to racial and ethnic minorities. Jeremy Peters captured this dynamic in his article in The Times last week, “As Critics Assail Trump, His Supporters Dig In Deeper.” Kaufmann, of the University of London, expanded upon Jardina’s work in his controversial paper, “ ‘Racial Self-Interest’ Is Not Racism,” writing that his survey data shows that a majority of American and British people of all races believe that when the white majority seeks lower immigration to help maintain their population share, this is racially self-interested rather than racist behavior. This distinction is important because racism is a taboo, whereas ethnic self-interest, like individual self-interest, is viewed as normal. These white conservatives whose immigration stance is influenced by a desire to slow decline in their group’s share of the population rather than due to an irrational fear of outgroups, feel accused of racism. This breeds resentment. Kaufmann contends that the racism charge has been a crucial factor in driving a rise in right-wing populism, in the United States and abroad: Antiracist overreach on the immigration question arguably underlies the populist western backlash against elites. Cultural conservatives care deeply about the effects of immigration and resent being told their thoughts and voting behavior are racist. They hold elites responsible for enforcing antiracist norms — in the workplace, government and mainstream media — beyond the bounds of what they consider appropriate. Kaufmann expanded on his views is an email: I think liberal norm policing on immigration is a major contributing factor to right wing populism. Not directly, but indirectly. That is, by removing questions of immigration levels and cultural impact from the political conversation, it blocks the adjustment of political supply to political demand. A bit like prohibition of alcohol, the unmet demand opens a market opportunity for entrepreneurs. Kaufmann cautioned, however, that this is not to say mainstream parties should always supply market demand (i.e., segregation in the Deep South), but not doing so opens space for populism (i.e., George Wallace). So ultimately the question turns on whether the immigration taboo is morally justified. Kaufmann and Jardina’s work raises a crucial question: has traditional polling failed to capture the actual views of the public on immigration? A number of experiments suggest that many people feel social pressure to conform to “social desirability” expectations and to mask their opposition to immigration. Alexander Janus, a sociologist at the University of Edinburgh, told me that his own and other studies “suggest that polls substantially underestimate the true extent of opposition to immigration due to social desirability bias.” Janus specifically pointed to Gallup surveys that appear to illustrate a steady liberal trend in views toward immigration. According to Gallup, the share of voters who say immigration levels should be reduced fell from 65 percent in 1995 to 35 percent in 2017. The share saying immigration should be increased rose from 7 to 24 percent, and the share who think immigration levels should remain unchanged rose from 27 to 38 percent over the same period. Of course, this could just reflect increased public support for immigration. But scholars have attempted to test the reliability of poll results like these. In a 2010 paper, “The Influence of Social Desirability Pressures on Expressed Immigration Attitudes,” Janus described a survey experiment designed to elicit anti-immigrant views without forcing participants to explicitly state their opinions. (The design of the experiment is complex, and readers should open the link to examine the details.) Seven hundred non-Hispanic white respondents were read a list of statements and asked “how many of them do you oppose. I don’t want to know which ones, just how many.” One half of the sample was given three items to choose from: “The federal government increasing assistance to the poor;” “Professional athletes making millions of dollars per year;” and “Large corporations polluting the environment.” The other half was presented with the same three items and one addition: “Cutting off immigration to the United States.” The experiment provided “an unobtrusive estimate of the percentage of respondents” who support “cutting off immigration to the United States,” Janus wrote. He found that support for restricting immigration rose from 42 percent, when participants were asked to openly state their views, to 61 percent when the answer was veiled by asking how many of the statements they objected to. The biggest differences were among college graduates: (from 29 to 71 percent), among liberals (from 26 to 71 percent) and among Democrats (from 33 to 63 percent). A more recent study, “From Extreme to Mainstream: How Social Norms Unravel,” by Leonardo Bursztyn, Georgy Egorov and Stefano Fiorin, economists at the University of Chicago, Northwestern University and the University of California, San Diego, found a similar masking of anti-immigrant views in deep red states. They sampled 458 voters before and after the 2016 election in eight states: Alabama, Arkansas, Idaho, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Mississippi, West Virginia and Wyoming. Before the election, the authors found that 54 percent of those surveyed were willing to contribute to an explicitly anti-immigration organization if they were assured anonymity. When told that they might be contacted later for further research — in other words, that their anonymity would be threatened — the percentage willing to make donations dropped to 34 percent. After Trump was elected president — legitimizing anti-immigrant views in the eyes of many — the willingness to contribute to the anti-immigration group with no guarantee of anonymity rose from 34 to 48 percent. Elections “can update positively people’s perceptions about the share of people who support an opinion previously believed to be stigmatized,” the authors write. “This may in turn change people’s perceptions about the negative judgment they will face for expressing their opinion.” Lisa Legault, Jennifer N. Gutsell and Michael Inzlicht, professors of psychology at Clarkson University, Brandeis University and the University of Toronto, elaborate on the complexities of racism in their 2011 study “Ironic Effects of Anti-prejudice Messages: How Motivational Interventions Can Reduce (but Also Increase) Prejudice.” Long before Trump’s rise, they found that: “motivating people to reduce prejudice by emphasizing external control” resulted in worsening rather than lessening “explicit and implicit prejudice.” Legault told an interviewer from the Association for Psychological Science: Controlling prejudice reduction practices are tempting because they are quick and easy to implement. They tell people how they should think and behave and stress the negative consequences of failing to think and behave in desirable ways. The problem is that such an approach to prejudice reduction can backfire, according to Legault: People need to feel that they are freely choosing to be non-prejudiced, rather than having it forced upon them. The authors conducted an experiment in which one group read what the authors called a “controlling brochure” on race that instructed participants on how “to combat prejudice and to comply with social norms of non-prejudice.” Another group read what the authors called an “autonomy brochure” that assumed participants’ “inner motivation for prejudice reduction was encouraged by emphasizing choice” and explained “why prejudice reduction is important and worthwhile.” The authors found that “participants in the autonomy-brochure condition displayed significantly less prejudice” after they read the brochure than those “who read the controlling brochure.” Their conclusion? “This investigation exposed the adverse effects of pressuring people to be non-prejudiced.” Legault and her colleagues found that “strategies urging people to comply with anti-prejudice standards are worse than doing nothing at all” because they prompt “a reflexive, reactive effect that increased prejudice.” This “rebellion” against being told what to think, they write, represents a direct counter-response (i.e., defiance) to threatened autonomy. Interventions that eliminate people’s freedom to choose egalitarian goals or to value diversity on their own terms may incite hostility toward the perceived source of the pressure (i.e., the stigmatized group), or a desire to rebel against prejudice reduction itself. I asked Emily Ekins, director of polling at the libertarian Cato Institute, about the political consequences of Trump’s now renounced policy of separating children of illegal immigrants from their parents at the border. Ekins emailed back: The child-parent separation issue most likely will not diminish Trump's core base of support — but it will likely damage support among a group of pivotal moderate voters crucial to his 2016 victory. The strongest empirical studies of the 2016 election are fairly conclusive that immigration concerns most likely drove his base. They likely see this policy as an unpleasant but necessary deterrent to reduce the rate of border crossings. Kaufmann, of the University of London, argued in his 2017 paper that Democrats and liberals should consider a more nuanced strategy on the issue of immigration: Pro-immigration forces should avoid using charges of racism to sideline discussions of ethno-demographic interests. Instead, they should accept the importance of cultural concerns but argue positively for immigration on humanitarian, national-interest or liberal grounds. They should cite assimilation data to reassure anxious majorities. Faced with Trump as an adversary, Democrats and liberals must calculate carefully. One of the most important questions facing the American left is how complicit — albeit unwillingly and unconsciously — it has been in his rise. Insofar as the left engages in a war of incivility, it cedes the field of battle to a president who relishes uncivil combat. Plenty of open racists have joined Trump’s ranks, millions of them, but his supporters also include millions of men and women who believe they are not racist and who react in anger when they are reflexively accused of racism. No one knows what Trump’s ultimate intentions are — dangerous possibilities abound. For this reason and many others, liberals and Democrats should avoid stepping into Trump’s trap.