OK, this is a bit self-indulgent, aimed at a very narrow audience, and maybe also whiny too. But via Mark Thoma I see that Nicholas Gruen has a celebratory piece on Max Corden that for some reason is largely devoted to a sort of back-handed attack on yours truly. Money quote: “I think of Krugman as about the most brilliant and useful economist we have. But his most brilliant work wasn’t useful, and his most useful work isn’t brilliant.” First, a word about Max Corden: his work has been wonderfully useful. In particular, his book “Trade Policy and Economic Welfare” is still, more than 40 years after its first publication, the best single guide to how to think about trade policy. It is, for example, lurking behind the recent stuff I’ve written about trade war and Brexit. Everything Gruen says about Max is totally true. So what’s Gruen’s beef with me? He really, really doesn’t like the formalization of economies of scale and imperfect competition in trade that went along with the rise of the “new trade theory”, and compares it to the excessive faith in formalism that I myself have condemned in much of macroeconomics. Obviously I don’t think that’s fair, and could say a lot about why I think the formalism was helpful. What’s really important here, however, is to point out the essential difference between the attitudes of new trade theory and “freshwater” macroeconomics toward real-world experience. What the freshwater school did was to take the actual experience of business cycles and say, “We don’t see how to formalize this experience in terms of maximizing equilibrium models; therefore it doesn’t exist.” It only looks as if recessions result from inadequate demand and that monetary or fiscal expansion can create jobs; our models tell us that can’t happen, so it’s all an optical illusion. This attitude, I’ve argued, had major negative consequences, not just for research, but for policy: it helped cultivate a sense of learned helplessness in the face of mass unemployment. What about new trade theory? What us new trade theorists did was say, “It looks as if there’s a lot going on in world trade that can’t be explained in existing formal models. So let’s see if there’s a different approach to modeling that can make sense of what we see.” In other words, the attitude toward formalization was almost the opposite of the macro wrong turn: it was there to help clarify our reality sense, not deny it. Now, we can argue about how much good this formalization did. I still believe that the formal models provided a level of clarity and legitimacy to trade discussion that wasn’t there before; your mileage may differ. Certainly nothing I wrote on trade has done as much to provide policy guidance as, say, my writing on the liquidity trap. But one thing new trade theory certainly didn’t do was lend support to really bad ideas, or induce policy paralysis. And another thing it didn’t do was divert trade economists away from studying the real world. On the contrary, trade has become a far more empirical, open-minded field than it was when I first entered it. Anyway, this isn’t about me (well, it sort of is, but never mind.) The important point shouldn’t be “don’t formalize”; it should be that formalism is there to open your mind, not close it, and if the real world seems to be telling you something inconsistent with your model, the problem lies in the model, not the world.