If you’ve been spending the past few days pondering some Supreme Court-related historical what-if’s, then try this one on for size. Thurgood Marshall, the court’s first African-American justice, announced his retirement on June 27, 1991. That was, of course, smack in the middle of a Republican presidency — that of George H. W. Bush. Mr. Bush, a one-term president, had already made one appointment to the court, David Souter, so Justice Marshall’s retirement was — and indeed was seen as — a gift to the president. He was in his 80s, and he felt increasingly isolated on the court, but it’s also the case that politically, Supreme Court succession wasn’t a life-or-death matter in those days. In our time, Justice Marshall would surely have held on, hoping for the possibility of a Democrat winning the presidency in 1992. And as we know, that happened. Bill Clinton won. And here’s where fate’s heavy hand figures in: Mr. Marshall died on Jan. 24, 1993 — Bill Clinton’s third full day as president. Had Justice Marshall stuck by his original intention not to retire, Mr. Clinton would have delivered his funeral oration and replaced him. Clarence Thomas would never have been on the court, and we presumably would have had a 5-4 liberal majority rather than a conservative one all these years. No Citizens United, no Hobby Lobby decision, none of the bleak outcomes we’ve been battered with in these past few days. Wednesday afternoon, shortly after Justice Anthony M. Kennedy announced his retirement, the Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer took to the Senate floor to announce that “this is the most important Supreme Court vacancy for this country in at least a generation.” After what the Republicans did to Barack Obama’s nominee, Judge Merrick Garland, in 2016, he argued, they should hew to their own precedent and wait to vote on a nominee until after the midterm elections; to do otherwise was “the height of hypocrisy.” Of course, the difference between 2016 and now is that then, the Republicans controlled the Senate and were able to deny Judge Garland a hearing and vote, whereas today, the Democrats are in the minority and lack such power. There isn’t much they can do, everyone says. But there is. In fact there are three things they need to do. First of all, they need simply to reflect on their recent history and understand why they’re in this situation. The time to play hardball was 2016. Maybe there’s nothing they could have done, given that the Republicans ran the Senate. But consider this counterfactual. I argued at the time that President Obama should have nominated not Judge Garland but Mariano-Florentino Cuéllar, then 43 years old and an associate justice on the California Supreme Court. Justice Cuéllar would have been an aggressively political choice in exactly the way Judge Garland was not. As a young, impeccably credentialed Mexican-American — by far the largest of the Latino voting blocs — Justice Cuéllar would have been someone to whom the Democrats’ core constituencies would have developed an emotional attachment. Someone they’d fight for. That, of course, is in all likelihood exactly why Mr. Obama didn’t nominate him — too political. Mr. Obama appeared to have deluded himself into thinking that if he advanced an older man (Judge Garland was 63, meaning he would not be on the court for 40 years) with something of a centrist reputation, Mitch McConnell might decide to be a reasonable fellow and give him a vote. But as everyone else in the world knew, Senator McConnell was never going to give him a vote. And no, he wouldn’t have given Justice Cuéllar a vote either. But in that case, the refusal would have carried a higher political price. It would have energized the Latino vote. It would have made the Supreme Court a more central voting issue to Democratic constituencies than poor Judge Garland ever became. That it never became that central issue is not all Mr. Obama’s fault. Hillary Clinton’s campaign shares the blame for that, and in fact the Democratic Party generally. I kept waiting in the fall of 2016 for Mrs. Clinton and all of her surrogates to emphasize to liberal voters: Don’t you see, this is our chance! They’ve had the Supreme Court for 30 years. We win, it’s ours! Voting rights, abortion rights, contraception, L.G.B.T. rights, union rights, money in politics, Second Amendment interpretations — if we get this one vote, all of those and more will change in our direction! The argument never really came. On the other side, it was a key argument, and quite possibly the key argument. All of those “Christian” conservatives knew very well they were voting for a man who was about as Christian as Larry Flynt. But they voted for Donald Trump en masse. They, directed by their political leaders, had their eyes fixed firmly on the prize of that swing Supreme Court seat. Democratic politicians and their voters did not. So that’s the first thing Democrats must do — learn from the past. We might not be in this situation if they’d played for keeps in 2016. The second thing the Democrats have to do is fight this nomination to the bitter end. Maintain, even if it’s manufactured, some aura of optimism and eagerness for the battle. Mr. Schumer said all the right things Wednesday afternoon, but if you watch the video, you’ll see he wasn’t exactly breathing fire. A sports team that’s behind and sees it’s likely to lose can give up midway through the fourth quarter or it can fight until the final second. Doing the former is always remembered as shameful, the latter always as noble. Besides, it’s not the fourth quarter. It isn’t even the end of the first quarter. President Trump could name someone so extreme that he or she will instantly be controversial. Democratic and progressive groups will have ample opportunity to pressure the four or five Republican senators who might become no votes. If the Democrats press Mr. Schumer’s hypocrisy argument effectively, public opinion could turn in their favor, even in some of those key Republican senators’ states. Unpredictable things happen all the time, especially in Trumpworld. And don’t forget Robert Mueller, the special counsel, or think he isn’t relevant here. If he issues a report in July or August, as many now expect, and if that report presents evidence that Mr. Trump did indeed obstruct justice, Mr. Schumer and the Democrats can make a strong case that a president governing under such a cloud — who might yet be found to have colluded with Russia in his election — has no business making Supreme Court nominations. That nominee, if confirmed, may well be ruling on matters relating to the investigation of the president. No, it’s not clear that will work as a gambit. But if the situation were reversed, the Republicans would try it. Yes, chances are the Democrats will lose this one, which brings us to the third thing they must do. They need to get their core constituencies to understand the stakes and to vote with the Supreme Court, and really all federal judges, at top of mind. Ironically enough, the era I discussed in opening this column was just such a time. After Justice Marshall’s retirement, his successor, Justice Thomas, made it to the court on a 52-48 vote (11 Democrats voted for him, eight of them Southerners). Mr. Bush’s other appointment, David Souter, was not yet seen as the liberal he would become. So liberals were very nervous about the court’s direction during that 1992 election, and even though abortion-rights groups weren’t wild about Mr. Clinton’s famous “safe, legal and rare” formulation on abortion, they went all in for him, and the court was a big voting issue. So now here we are, contemplating the end of Roe v. Wade, the reversal of the Obergefell v. Hodges same-sex marriage decision and God knows what new levels of darkness on money in politics, gun rights and even age-old precedents like one person, one vote. If you don’t know much about that, go read about Reynolds v. Sims; a very conservative court could put that precedent at risk, and it would be a nearly incalculable disaster for democracy. And the sad truth is that apparently it will take these developments, or some of them, for liberals to see why they should care about the Supreme Court. Or let’s hope it will just take the threat of them happening. If Democrats and liberals want to choose a date to begin caring again, Nov. 6, 2018, would be a good day to start.