The presidency of Donald Trump has stirred debate about what it means to be American. What ideals should the nation embody? What is the state of the country today?   As we approach Independence Day, we are sharing some pieces that wrestled with these questions.  Because America is an idea as much as a country, our acts of moral courage defend us as surely as any act of violence, writes Phil Klay, a former Marine who served in Iraq.  “In the real world, as lived and experienced by real people, the demand for human rights and dignity, the longing for liberty and justice and opportunity, the hatred of oppression and corruption and cruelty is reality. By denying this experience, we deny the aspirations of billions of people, and invite their enduring resentment,” the Republican senator writes.  There is no shared American ideal. Clashing visions and political conflict are at the core of our national being, writes Gary Gutting, a philosophy professor.  “Beginning in the wreckage of World War II, America established a set of global norms that solidified its position atop a rules-based international system,” writes Kori Schake of the International Institute for Strategic Studies. “Decades from now, we may look back at the first weeks of June 2018 as a turning point in world history: the end of the liberal order.” “Reclaiming our values starts with standing up for them at home — inclusivity, tolerance, diversity, respect for the rule of law, freedom of speech, freedom of the press,” the former vice president writes. I swore to defend the United States against all enemies. I meant it, Yascha Mounk writes. America has long been a powerful nation, Paul Krugman writes. “But our role in the world was always about more than money and guns. It was also about ideals: America stood for something larger than itself — for freedom, human rights and the rule of law as universal principles.” Bret Stephens writes: “In the matter of immigration, mark this conservative columnist down as strongly pro-deportation.” But whom does he want to deport? From Roger Cohen: America cannot be “first,” as Trump insists. It can be a thug and a bully only in the betrayal of itself. It must be itself, a certain idea of liberty and democracy and openness, or it is nothing, just a squalid, oversized, greedy place past the zenith of its greatness. From Brent Staples, who serves on the editorial board: “Many of us who were born black in the 1950s abandoned reverence toward the national anthem once we were old enough to grasp what Martin Luther King Jr. meant when he said that the country had defaulted on the promises embodied in the Declaration of Independence.” When Donald Trump took office, the editorial board wrote that America “was great before Mr. Trump became president, and with his help — or, if necessary, in spite of his folly — Americans will find ways to make it greater in years to come.” We’ve been curating some of the best reads from the Opinion section each weekend. Here are collections of favorites on love and relationships, the power of music, the joy of swimming and how we view money.   