Heaven is the Mobile-Tensaw Delta when its mythical flower is in bloom.  By Margaret Renkl Photographs and Video by Damon Winter Ms. Renkl is a contributing opinion writer. From the middle of its namesake delta, the city of Mobile, Ala., looks like a mythical place: shiny skyscrapers framed by cattails and marsh grass, a city that reaches into a sky so vast it holds all the weather there is — bright sun and cottony clouds and pregnant thunderheads and torrential rain — and all at one time. From the middle of that magnificent delta, Mobile could be Atlantis rising from the sea or the Emerald City of Oz. Weather is unpredictable on the Alabama coast in summertime. In February, when we planned this trip, my husband and I were hoping to arrive on a day that offered at least one two-hour window of clear skies, just long enough to get out on the Mobile-Tensaw Delta in Jimbo Meador’s flat-bottomed boat and see the American lotuses in bloom. By the time we actually arrived in mid-June, the forecast called for intermittent storms. Standing next to his boat in a slip next to the Bluegill, a restaurant on the Battleship Parkway in Spanish Fort, Mr. Meador was studying his phone, toggling between weather apps. Each showed squalls arriving in an unpredictable pattern all day. “Let’s go on out,” he said. “Worst thing that could happen is we get struck by lightning in a beautiful place.” He was joking, but the Mobile-Tensaw Delta is in fact an indescribably beautiful place. Encompassing roughly 300 square miles, it is the second-largest delta region in the United States, trailing only the far more famous Mississippi Delta. The Mobile-Tensaw watershed is fed by nine rivers carrying water from much of Alabama, as well as parts of Mississippi and Georgia. Its estuary ecosystem includes open water, marsh, swamp and bottomland hardwood forests. It serves as a home to some 67 rare species, many threatened or endangered. Designated a National Natural Landmark, it is also an important way station for migrating songbirds. I knew all that because I took this tour two years ago. Mr. Meador’s encyclopedic knowledge of the delta — its history, its ecology, its creatures and its flowers — is how I first heard about the flower I have come to see. The American lotus is a creamy yellow flower the size of a luncheon plate that rises above floating pads of foliage so large they collect rainwater. His description of those watery fields of gently swaying flowers opening to the infinite delta sky, which I had missed on that first trip, is what made me want to come back. In 1976, my eighth-grade English class read Edith Hamilton’s “Mythology.” On the back cover, in someone else’s 14-year-old handwriting, are the words, “This book is boring.” I, on the other hand, loved that book, and I’ve held on to my copy all these years. In her summary of “The Odyssey,” Ms. Hamilton describes the Lotus Eaters, who shared their “flower food” with Odysseus’s sailors: “Those who tasted it lost their longing for home,” she writes. Odysseus had to capture his sailors and chain them to the ship. “They wept, so great was their desire to stay, tasting forever the honey-sweet flowers.” For a certain kind of child, the prospect of seeing such flowers can become something of an obsession, even across decades, and Jimbo Meador, 77, is the kind of boatman who understands an obsession like that. A certified master naturalist, he has spent most of his life in this maze of a delta, where the water and the land come together with the sky.  He is locally famous for catching unwelcome alligators with his bare hands and relocating them to safer environs, but he is also a literary man who has written for magazines and counts among his friends writers like Jim Harrison and Thomas McGuane, who dedicated “Live Water” to him. The novelist Winston Groom is a lifelong friend — “Forrest Gump” is also dedicated to Jimbo (along with another childhood friend, George Radcliff). When the film version of “Forrest Gump” was released in 1994, rumors flew that Mr. Groom’s protagonist was based on Mr. Meador, a onetime passionate runner who knows a lot about shrimp. What’s true is that a dialect coach from Paramount did go down to Alabama to record Mr. Meador’s voice so Tom Hanks could emulate his accent. Hearing Mr. Meador tell a story is one of the chief pleasures of his ecotours of the Mobile-Tensaw Delta, and he has a huge array of stories to draw from, depending on his visitors’ interests. Many people get on his boat hoping to see birds — more than 300 species have been identified there — and Mr. Meador knows them all by sight, and most by song. Other people want to learn about the delta’s history: the daily life of the Creeks, who lived there first; the last major battle of the Civil War, which was fought at Fort Blakely at the edge of the delta (“Lee had actually surrendered, but they didn’t get the email,” Mr. Meador said); a “ghost fleet” of World War II Liberty ships anchored for decades in the fresh water of the Tensaw River to keep them safe from corrosion in case they were needed for another war. But Mr. Meador’s chief aim is to educate people about the ecological necessity of this delta. “Nitrogen and phosphorus runoff is what’s causing these algae blooms in the gulf,” he said. “It used to be the ground absorbed the rain. Now everything is paved and roofed, and it runs off into the tributaries and straight into the rivers without getting filtered out. But all the plant life in this delta utilizes the nitrogen and phosphorus that’s running down all these rivers, so it acts as a huge filter. Nature’s pretty good at taking care of itself if we let it.”   The biologist and environmental activist E.O. Wilson, who also spent much of his childhood in the area, calls the Mobile-Tensaw Delta “arguably the biologically richest place” Americans have: “It has more species of plants and animals than any comparable area anywhere in North America, the United States and Canada.”  On the way to the lotuses, Mr. Meador took care to point out an enormous variety of birds and flowers. We saw brown pelicans and ospreys (including two active nests), laughing gulls, marsh hens (one with newly hatched chicks), Caspian terns, eastern kingbirds, anhingas, belted kingfishers, one purple gallinule, two species of egret and three species of heron, and we weren’t even looking for birds. We saw morning glory, alligator weed, water hemlock, arrow arum, elderberry flowers, black needlerush, rose mallow and a host of other wildflowers, all as interesting as the mythical flowers we came to see. But, oh, the flowers we came to see! The American lotus is no relation to those in Homer’s epic, but it is every bit as intoxicating as the ancient lotus of yore: thousands of pale yellow flowers rising on foot-high stalks above floating pads with water pearled across their surfaces, the petals of each bloom curling gently toward the sun. Their deep-golden centers are tangled with white-tipped stamens, a flower within a flower, and their enormous, unopened buds are as delicately furled as any miniature rose. There was not another human soul in sight, and Mr. Meador cut his boat’s motor. The only sounds were bird song and lapping water and the buzz of tiny lotus-drunk bees gathering pollen from the feast spread out before them. It was an alien landscape to me, far from my childhood in the red-dirt piney woods of rural Alabama, farther still from my life today in the suburbs of Nashville. But for just a few moments I felt I belonged there. For a few timeless moments, my face inches from an American lotus in full bloom, I forgot myself. Just for an instant, I lost my longing for home. 