Within hours of the death of the influential American philosopher Stanley Cavell last week, major newspapers and journals published obituaries highlighting the unusual eclecticism of his work. The Times, for example, wrote that Cavell “found heady ideas not only in the works of great thinkers of the past but also in romantic comedies from Hollywood.” And The Washington Post called Cavell “a onetime jazz pianist who traded music for philosophy but maintained an abiding interest in the arts, mining screwball comedies, Shakespearean dramas and postwar ‘new music’ for philosophical insights.” It’s true that Cavell’s range was unusually broad. He understood philosophy — the impulse to make sense of the human experience — as a diverse and democratic activity that cannot be confined to the academy and that naturally extends to all aspects of culture, an activity we join by learning to, as he put it, “think undistractedly about things that ordinary human beings cannot help thinking about.” That is a big part of what made him one of the most widely read and beloved thinkers of his time. But what hasn’t made its way into the tributes is the centrality of the question, woven through virtually everything Cavell wrote in his nearly 50-year career, of what it means to be a citizen in the contradiction that is the United States of America — a country founded on a sacred commitment to liberty and justice as well as on the genocidal destruction of indigenous communities and the embrace of slavery, practices whose legacies have disgraced us from our country’s founding to the catastrophe that is the Trump administration. Cavell, who spent most of his long career in the philosophy department at Harvard University, was unlike other professional philosophers. He didn’t cleave to any one tradition or school of thought, limit himself to any one area of philosophy or otherwise take up philosophical questions in well-worn ways. Instead, he modeled for his readers and his students — the three of us included — what it might mean to imagine that “what is true for you in your private heart is true for all men,” as Ralph Waldo Emerson famously put the point in his essay “Self-Reliance.” Cavell’s idea wasn’t that whatever is true for you is objectively and completely true. It was that paying attention to what matters to you is a prerequisite of thinking seriously at all. Cavell enacted this idea in his own philosophical explorations, though he knew that philosophizing in this fashion was by its nature risky. Reflecting on your own interests could turn out to be nothing but what Emerson called “whim” — or worse. Cavell never dictated what readers should think — a pedagogical stance that was critical to philosophy as he practiced it. He thought that the success of democracy depended on making the enterprise of thinking attractive to people. He showed by example what it meant to think for oneself, and he encouraged his readers to discover and develop their own sensibilities — a prerequisite, as he saw it, to the growth of the kind of individuality necessary for flourishing democratic life. He also understood American democracy as a demanding ideal that at its best has taken the form of a conversation in which participants model for one another the possibilities of citizenship. This preoccupation is a thread running through his discussions of figures as disparate as Wittgenstein, Katharine Hepburn, Plato, Thoreau, Frank Capra, Kierkegaard, Samuel Beckett, Lady Macbeth and John Stuart Mill, and topics as eclectic as philosophical skepticism, the power of the human voice, our relationship to nature and what he called the ontology of film. The preoccupation gets worked out differently in Cavell’s many books, including those on films from Hollywood’s “golden age,” such as “Pursuits of Happiness,” and those that engage with the thought of Wittgenstein and J. L. Austin, including his first collection of essays, “Must We Mean What We Say?” Many of Cavell’s most enthusiastic readers have found his unique range of interests so absorbing that they simply adopt them as their own. Yet his goal was for his readers to notice the things they themselves found interesting and then to take them up and think about and through them. He saw this taking up as our duty, as human beings and as citizens of whatever imperfect state we happen to call home. Cavell believed that a democracy flourishes only when each person in its purview has not only the freedom to embrace, develop and express his or her idiosyncratic tastes and aspirations but also the wherewithal to do so — as well as to honor the (honorable) tastes and aspirations of their fellow citizens and thus to stay open to the possibility of new versions of themselves. Above all, he exhorted us to measure a government’s adequacy by its capacity to support this vision of human flourishing, a vision he referred to as “moral perfectionism,” meaning not the pursuit of a perfect end-state but a continuous commitment to the possibility of a flourishing democratic community. It was Cavell’s conviction that a functioning democracy not only promotes the values of liberty and equality but, moreover, does so because it provides the conditions in which we can use words to make sense of our lives. His lifelong interest in Wittgenstein’s “Philosophical Investigations” turns in great measure on that philosopher’s asking us to notice that our traffic with words requires grasping the importance of the similarities among the contexts in which we use them. We are supposed to see that using language is not a dryly intellectual enterprise and that to be able to speak with authority is to have a knack for endlessly projecting our concepts into new contexts. This is the point Cavell is making, when, in a passage of his essay “The Availability of Wittgenstein’s Later Philosophy” he declares: “That on the whole” we emerge into language “is a matter of our sharing routes of interest and feeling, modes of response, senses of humor and of significance and of fulfillment, of what is outrageous, of what is similar to what else, what a rebuke, what forgiveness, of when an utterance is an assertion, when an appeal, when an explanation — all the whirl of organism Wittgenstein calls ‘forms of life.’” Even though each of us shares the things Cavell names in this passage, in thinking and talking we are inevitably thrown back on our own judgment about what matters. In selecting the particular words we use in this or that particular situation we are in effect making claims about what is apt to say when. This lesson is politically consequential, Cavell stresses, because it implies that thinking is an activity we can’t outsource to others. Without the material and political conditions that encourage individuals to express their own sense of what’s important, we risk being reduced to the unthinking mob that Heidegger calls “das Man” and to the condition anathema to democratic conversation that Emerson, an American preoccupied with the fragility and imperfection of the new country’s faith in the “genius” of every individual, warned us was “mere conformity.” Clarity about the nature of this danger is essential at times like these, when the public must on a daily basis confront bald lies and cries of “fake news” from Donald Trump and his dangerous ilk. The point of these propagandistic devices is to turn us into a collective unthinking herd, to destroy the capacity for independent thinking that is democracy’s lifeblood. The antidote to the toxin is to create the social conditions that will allow each citizen to promote and persevere in the Socratic task — so consistently highlighted in Cavell’s prose — of continuously getting to know ourselves, of acknowledging our own routes of feeling and senses of what matters and — crucially — testing these sensibilities publicly against the sensibilities of our fellow citizens. The challenges of this enterprise go beyond merely finding the rhetorical and material resources to brush deception aside. To be a participant in a good-enough democratic polis is a perpetual project that requires taking seriously one’s abiding and evolving tastes and interests and working without surcease to create an ever-expanding social and linguistic space for every individual who arrives on our shores, or at our borders, to pursue happiness.