Bret Stephens: Happy almost-Fourth of July, Gail. It looks like Anthony Kennedy’s decision to retire just guaranteed a hot summer for all of us, particularly on the opinion desk. I’m just old enough to remember a time when Supreme Court nominations weren’t so bitter, and nominees could rally widespread bipartisan support. I suppose that ended with Robert Bork’s failed nomination in 1987. Do you see us ever going back to those halcyon days when someone like Sandra Day O’Connor could be confirmed 99-0? Gail Collins: Bret, I have a theory that American politics tends to reflect the structure of the American media. Back in those days of glorious bipartisanship most people got their news from a few large TV networks and one or two local newspapers. Discourse tended to be very, um, gentlepersonly. Bret: I like that word. Gail: But right now anybody can get in the game via the internet. When there are so many voices, there tends to be a whole lot of yelling as people vie for attention. The same thing happened about 100 years ago when, thanks to cheaper printing technology and urbanization, people who were used to getting maybe one news publication in the mail suddenly discovered they could buy three or four or eight different local papers. There was a lot of shrieking back then, too. Have I ever told you the story of Grover Cleveland? Very respectable guy but suddenly there were all these headlines about him staggering drunk and naked through brothels. Bret: That’s an image I really could have done without, Gail! Gail: O.K., I may be going overboard. But I can never resist throwing in Grover. Someday when we have less news to chew over remind me to tell you the story of his alleged love child. Point is that the internet has created a whole new political discourse that encourages fighting. And I’m sorry to tell you that the Sandra Day O’Connor days are over. Given that, what’s your prediction? Bret: I think there’s a lot to your media theory. Social media tends to empower the loudest and most extreme voices over the more sensible ones. And it’s usually the social-media loudmouths the Senators will be listening to. Predictions? Brett Kavanaugh, a judge on the D.C. Court of Appeals who once clerked for Kennedy, is my first bet. Among other things, he wrote a law review article in 2009 arguing that presidents should be exempt from lawsuits and investigations, which must be music to President Trump’s ears. And he’s in his early 50s, meaning he’d likely be on the court for decades. Gail: Actually, in his pictures Kavanaugh looks like he’s about 22. He’d be around long enough to rule on immigration rights for refugees from Mars. Bret: By choosing him, Trump would become Saint Donald in the eyes of movement conservatives. But Kavanaugh had a hard time getting confirmed to his current job, and Trump also needs someone who can get through the Senate, which is to say swing votes like Susan Collins, the moderate Maine Republican, and red state Democrats like North Dakota’s Heidi Heitkamp. Gail: If my understanding is correct, the objections to Kavanaugh were mainly that he’s been too partisan. Not a lot of Republicans are going to have problems with that. Susan Collins may say she’s worried about abortion rights, but I don’t see her actually deciding to stand up to her party and torpedo a nomination unless he jumps up and down at the senate hearing and yells “I hate Roe vs. Wade!” And while environmentalists would have good reason to be scared of this guy, some of the swing votes — like Alaska’s Lisa Murkowski and Heitkamp — would love nothing better than to have a Supreme Court that flies a “Drill, baby, drill” flag outside the building. Bret: Alternatively, Trump might be tempted to pick a woman, probably Amy Coney Barrett, who is just 46. She too became something of a conservative heroine when Dianne Feinstein foolishly decided to suggest that her Catholic convictions might make her unfit for a judgeship after Trump nominated her to the Seventh Circuit last year. Her judicial record is a lot thinner than some other potential candidates, which might serve her well for confirmation purposes, but would also make some people nervous. We conservatives have grown leery of watching judges like David Souter, a George H.W. Bush nominee, “evolve” into liberals once they’re on the high court. Gail: Yes, and some of us will be crossing our fingers and yelling “Evolve, baby, evolve!” Bret: Chief Justice John Roberts looks like he may be another evolver, by the way. Sorry, go on. Gail: Speaking of issues — and evolving — there’s been much less talk about gay rights than abortion and environmentalism. I’d like to think that except on narrow issues like that dreadful cake-making guy, the country has moved so far on inclusion that it’s very unlikely any nominee would be an proponent of pushing back. Although of course we both know that whatever this person believes, during the Senate hearings it will turn into a strong commitment to open mindedness and respect for precedent. Even if he or she secretly is plotting to destroy Social Security and deport all puppies. Bret: The 2015 Obergefell decision, which made marriage equality the law of the land and is one of Kennedy’s crowning achievements, is pretty solid constitutionally and I doubt the court will revisit it. Nor do I think it will overturn Casey or Roe, the two key abortion rulings. Much as the right hates those decisions on moral and legal grounds, I suspect Roberts believes the Court should stay away from reverse social engineering and respect precedent. So those of us who care about abortion rights and marriage equality shouldn’t panic. Based on some of this year’s rulings, I expect that the most interesting divisions within the court will turn on First Amendment jurisprudence. Our news-side colleague Adam Liptak has a fascinating story in Sunday’s Times noting how free speech has become a right-wing cause — especially when it comes to political donations and union issues — after years of being much more dear to liberals and libertarians. Are liberals really souring on free speech? Gail: Everybody should read Adam’s piece. There’s one area of alleged free speech this court has glommed onto that I know is wrong, wrong, wrong. That’s the overturning of limits on campaign donations by wealthy individuals and corporations. When you talked wistfully about bipartisanship I was remembering John McCain partnering with Russ Feingold on campaign finance reform — getting both parties together for a really heavy lift that could have put American politics on a whole new, principled level. And the deciding Supreme Court vote to kill off reform came from Anthony Kennedy. So while I understand the concerns everyone has over his departure, I’m not exactly weeping. Bret: Oh, good: We disagree. Limits on campaign donations have, paradoxically, forced politicians to devote inordinate amounts of time raising money in small increments or otherwise relying on issue-advocacy 527 groups. I’d rather have a system where politicians stick mostly to politics rather than fund-raising; and in which money isn’t limited but transparency is mandated. Gail: O.K., we are going to have to schedule a full fight on this one. And we’ll have plenty of opportunity since we’ve got four months of House and Senate candidates snuggling up to special interests and the super rich. Bret: I know you have a book you need to get back to writing, but I don’t want to let you go without asking for your thoughts about Rep. Joe Crowley’s stunning defeat to Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez in the 14th district in the Bronx and Queens. She’s a 28 year-old self-declared democratic socialist. Is her side of the Democratic Party the future? Or are more conventionally centrist liberals still in control? Please explain to this premature fuddy-duddy what is going on. Gail: So glad you asked. Joe Crowley has spent his political life as a safe-district machine pol. The Queens Democratic organization deeded him his Congressional seat. He’s never had the tiniest bit of a challenge. When his district became mainly minority, it wasn’t as if he didn’t notice — he responded by doing favors for black and Latino machine Democrats. He got beat by a young, very intelligent, hard-charging Latina who knew how to use social media. And even though I did feel sorry for Crowley when he played his farewell solo of “Born to Run,” this was all good news. Exactly what our political system is supposed to be about. I know you’ll want to object to her platform but “Medicare for all” is the future. I think “abolish ICE” is just a way of objecting to Trumpian immigration outrages. Again, a happy opening to Independence Day. Bret: I’m all for youth and energy, especially against a modern-day Boss Tweed like Crowley. And I realize that the sort of progressive politics that appeal to a New York constituency don’t necessarily represent the Democratic Party at large. Still, it worries me, for a few reasons. First, I think anyone who calls herself a democratic socialist must either be ignorant of the immense damage socialism did in the 20th century or, more frighteningly, cognizant of it. The Sanders-style instinct of treating the financial class in the United States as virtual criminals is an ugly form of class warfare this country doesn’t need. Second, the increased prominence of Sandernistas among Democrats ultimately strengthens the right. You know I favor a tolerant and liberal immigration policy. But the right believes that the only type of regulation the left wants to get rid of is the regulation of migration, and Ocasio-Cortez’s rhetoric, hyperbolic or not, fuels that perception. Gail: I’ve never been a super-huge fan of Bernie Sanders. But a 76-year-old career politician has a little higher bar to hit than a 28-year-old newbie. Give her time. Bret: Look, I think politics is a game best played within the 40-yard lines. Trump took the right to the 15-yard line, and I’d hate to see the left go the same way. Someone needs to stay sane in this country. The ball is in your hands. Gail: And one heck of an interesting game it’s going to be. Meanwhile, happy Independence Day and watch out for falling firecrackers.