SAN FRANCISCO — Not too many years ago, I was having dinner with my in-laws in Orange County, Calif. My mother-in-law was complaining about her new neighbors, an all-too-common pastime for any resident of a gated community with an HOA. The neighbors’ crime? “They let their children play in our cul-de-sac,” she lamented. “Everyone knows streets are for cars.” “But Granny,” my daughter, then about 6, piped up, “streets are for people, not cars.” I smiled to myself and thought, my work here is done. While my daughter had pointed out something that seemed obvious to her, convincing her grandmother would be something else altogether. It’s no surprise that my city kid, now 12, who walks alone to the corner store, takes public transportation with her friends, carpools to school and has parents fortunate enough to both have 15-minute BART commutes, should be an advocate for the streets she interacts with so regularly. But she’s in the minority. In 1969, 48 percent of kids in kindergarten through eighth grade walked or biked to school; by 2009, that number had dropped to 13 percent. Most of us pass through the places where we live, work and play not on two feet or two wheels but in cars. We are disconnected from our streets — and so we don’t care about them. It shows. As Jane Jacobs observed in “The Death and Life of Great American Cities”: “The trust of a city street is formed over time from many, many little public sidewalk contacts. Most of it is ostensibly trivial but the sum is not trivial at all.” You don’t have any sidewalk contacts when the car is your default. And I think we’re seeing the very real effects of being a car-dependent nation, one that assumes its collective reliance on fossil fuel is not only sustainable but somehow an inalienable right. Our love affair with the car far supersedes our connection to the street, and by extension, our community. We need to counteract the maddeningly retrograde efforts of the Koch brothers to kill public transit projects across the country in the name of personal liberty. This disconnect, as Ms. Jacobs observed back in 1961, is not at all trivial. A nation ensconced in private vehicles is a nation too easily able to ignore the realities on its streets. How do we change that? In June, a series of pilot projects begun by the National Street Service — a project of Greenfield Labs, a mobility research arm of Ford’s — in partnership with Gehl, were completed. No question there are already a lot of terrific nonprofits and grass-roots efforts that have long been engaged in this effort. And there are numerous initiatives that run the gamut from (PARK)ing Day, now over a decade old, which turns parking spaces into temporary parks, to Reimagining the Civic Commons, which is working to demonstrate the power of the civic commons to produce increased and more equitably shared prosperity — and to establish metrics to analyze their impact. What’s different about this effort is not so much its approach — it draws heavily from tactical urbanism, community engagement strategies and grass-roots organizing — but its funder. National Streets Service is funded by a car company: Ford. You may be surprised to learn that a company perhaps most associated with country’s best-selling vehicle, the F-150, is doing this. But Ford, like many other automobile manufacturers, sees the writing on the wall — in contrast to the policies of the Trump administration. Ford has been steadily diversifying from a car company to a “mobility company.” It acquired Chariot, a crowd-sourced shuttle service, as well as two transportation software companies; it has invested in bikeshare and is creating public-private partnerships with public transit agencies This shift comes from an understanding that 1) we can no longer continue to rely on fossil fuels, 2) we need to look at our public spaces, streets and highways as a connected system and, of course, 3) if car ownership truly begins its predicted decline as autonomous vehicles become more prevalent, Ford needs to stay relevant. A commitment to safer streets is a commitment to the public good; it puts the needs of the collective above the convenience of the individual. It embraces the fact that we’re all in this together rather than work to make sure we’re always further apart. It starts with shifting mind-sets, and that’s where the N.S.S. comes in. The intent of the N.S.S. is to provoke meaningful discussion among people who share street space in different ways. By engaging everyone who uses streets, from sanitation workers to street vendors, commuters to the homeless, the project aims to ensure streets are safe, welcoming and functional spaces for people, not just cars. “Streets are the connective tissue of a community,” says Elaine Clegg, a Boise City, Idaho, council member who participated in the project, “and if your connective tissue isn’t healthy, then your community isn’t healthy.” During the program, which has been piloted so far in Boise, Philadelphia, San Antonio, San Francisco and Pontiac, Mich., volunteers came together to observe and explore their streets, to create opportunities to help others reimagine what the street is for, and to collaborate across neighborhoods on projects to make streets welcoming for everyone. Said one N.S.S. volunteer: “I was surprised at how ingrained certain feelings are about the street, and how a lot of those feelings stem from fear. But it doesn’t have to be that way.” Over the course of 10 weeks, participants first observe and learn about their favorite (and least favorite) streets and then brainstorm ideas for low-cost interventions to make those streets better. Volunteers and project leaders then collaborate on a larger-scale effort to carry out some of those ideas and engage their respective communities. There is, of course, an N.S.S. app, though this effort openly acknowledges the limitations of technological solutions to solve many of the issues being explored. All the real-time tracking of mass transit departures and arrivals, for example, may make it easier to not miss a bus but won’t pay for and maintain that bus. So, on the one hand it’s a grass-roots project that challenges what streets are used for; on the other, it’s being funded by a car company. It’s easy to be skeptical about this (I certainly am, especially in light of the not-too-surprising new report showing that pickups and SUVs account for 40 percent of pedestrian fatalities) but regardless, it’s a departure. Other car-based businesses are also diversifying (Uber, for example has acquired JUMP, a dockless electric bikeshare company and has talked about getting into public transportation, a development I’m not keen on, and Lyft has redesigned its app to emphasize ridesharing and public transit and is about to acquire Motivate, which runs CitiBike, the largest bikeshare program in the country). So yes, we can be cynical about this shift — or be hopeful that it means more and more people might be willing to embrace alternatives, to become, as one company that focuses on transit integration calls it, “omni-modal.” Streets should be designed to accommodate all modes in equal measure, from strollers to skateboards, pedestrians to carpoolers. Jane Jacobs was right about a lot of things, and the “eyes on the street” concept was certainly one of them. Not the “if you see something, say something” paranoia variety, but rather the “let’s all look out for each other” kind. If well-funded initiatives like the street service were adopted everywhere — and the private sector was a partner, not the decider (I am in no way advocating for a privatization of public spaces like parks, plazas and streets), it could radically change the way streets are designed and built. Of course, we’ll have to keep our eyes peeled for the auto company equivalent of greenwashing. Dare I call it “car-washing”? The project suggests a very different city future than the last 100 years of car-oriented city building has produced. And ideally it could become a sort of anti-Koch version of Americans for Prosperity, one that inspired greater civic engagement (and higher pro-street/pro-public transit voter turnout). I’m open to seeing how that plays out.