As we await President Trump’s nomination to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy on the Supreme Court, it is worth reflecting on the unique role that Justice Kennedy played in American life. For a little over three decades, we have lived under Justice Kennedy’s mostly (but not always) benevolent rule. It would be an overstatement to call his reign imperial, and yet there was something more than a little kingly to his role on the Supreme Court: Justice Kennedy voted with the majority more frequently than any other justice. As its swing vote, he was, on issues ranging from abortion to gay marriage to speech, the final decider in American life. Justice Kennedy was an idiosyncratic, if not always rigorous, libertarian moderate, and he leaves an America that has been nudged, and in some cases shoved, in the direction of his particular political preferences: With some notable exceptions for medical marijuana and eminent domain, he tended to favor individual dignity and autonomy, and was probably the court’s most staunch defender of free-speech rights. It is hard to think of another individual who has exerted as much direct and sustained political power over American life over the same time. So it is hardly surprising that Justice Kennedy’s retirement announcement generated paroxysms of fear on the left, with some liberals viewing his exit as even more dangerous than the election of President Trump, and a similar thrill on the right at the once-in-a-generation opportunity to push the court in a more definitively conservative direction. Justice Kennedy’s retirement has generated such a heated response because of the singular importance of his vote; on matters that reached the Supreme Court, he was the bulwark, the decision maker, the individual whose opinions mattered most. In a representative democracy, it is something of a problem for any one individual, especially one who is unelected with a lifetime appointment, to wield so much power. Yet the current trajectory of national politics, in which Congress increasingly plays a secondary role in policymaking and the executive consolidates more power, promises to further empower the Supreme Court, and thus its most frequent swing vote — now, likely Chief Justice John Roberts. Justice Kennedy’s exit is a reminder of the ways in which Congress has abdicated its coequal role. Consider the court ruling upholding Mr. Trump’s travel ban: In essence, it declared that the president has broad authority to determine who is allowed to enter the country, and that the president’s authority is granted by Congress. (Had Congress intended “to constrain the President’s power to determine who may enter the country,” the ruling said, “it could have chosen language directed to that end.”) The implication was that the legislature could have chosen to limit those powers, but has not done so. The argument over Mr. Trump’s travel ban was thus a back and forth between the executive and the judicial branches; Congress could have played a more substantial role, but it chose not to. Roughly speaking, that is how much of federal policy is now made, from immigration enforcement to regulatory decisions (some of the lower-court fights over net neutrality, for example, revolved around whether the Federal Communications Commission had the power to make rules without explicit authorization from Congress). Not all of these issues reach the Supreme Court, but anything that moves more questions into the court system implicitly empowers the high court, and thus its most consistent swing vote. A weak Congress — and there is little doubt that this Congress, which has declined to pass a budget, been frozen in tactical indecision on immigration and largely given up on the idea of advancing a legislative agenda, is weak — empowers not only the executive but the judicial branch as well. If that weakness persists, the future of the court may be a kind of legislating from the bench — less in the sense that conservatives have long complained about, where judicial activists overturn or rewrite duly enacted legislation, but in the sense that the court is stepping in to act where Congress has not, particularly as a check on executive power. To restore the balance of power, Congress would need to regain a sense of authority and independence as a coequal branch of government. That would mean asserting its own power to legislate as well as to check the power of the executive — two projects the current Republican Congress has largely abandoned. Doing so could help cool the fervor around a retirement like Justice Kennedy’s. Instead, lawmakers from both parties have embraced the notion that elections matter in large part because of whom Congress will appoint to the courts, an argument that effectively cedes the authority of the legislature. Congress has steadily shifted responsibility to the other branches in part because it has been politically advantageous. The electoral incentives in Congress are for grandstanding in support of or opposition to the president rather than for doing the difficult work of devising and negotiating legislation. Under Mr. Trump, those incentives are sharper than ever before. Yet there are signs that those incentives may be starting to dissipate. Less than 24 hours before Justice Kennedy announced his retirement, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a 28-year-old Democratic Socialist, caused a stir when she won a primary against Joe Crowley, a long-serving New York Democrat who was sometimes seen as a potential speaker of the House. Like many of the Tea Party candidates who swept into Congress during the Obama administration, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez ran against her party’s establishment, arguing that its members were self-interested and disconnected from the realities of the voters they were sworn to serve. But she also ran on a series of bold policy promises: Medicare for all, free public college, a jobs guarantee, criminal justice reform. These promises were almost certainly overambitious, but they were nonetheless promises to govern and to legislate, to take responsibility as an elected official. Although her campaign was not explicitly framed in these terms, they were promises to restore a measure of power to Congress — and to make regular Americans the swing vote that matters most.