Are you an American citizen with most of your life ahead of you? And do you care about any of the following: global warming, poverty and inequality, student debt, immigration policy, L.G.B.T.Q. rights, institutional racism, gun violence, access to health care, abortion rights, Social Security, or American military intervention? These are some of the issues that elected representatives, or their appointed judges, will be wrestling with in the coming years and decades. If these issues — or others — matter to you, vote! If you need added incentive, keep in mind that legislators across this country are actively working to make it harder for you to vote. They’re betting that technical barriers, hassles, costs and confusing rules will keep you away from the polls. So consider your vote as an act of rebellion — like the Boston Tea Party — a refusal to be disenfranchised. Here’s why it’s urgent: During the 2014 midterm election, only 12 percent of eligible 18- to 21-year-old college or university students voted. In 2016 — with the presidency at stake — less than half of college undergraduates voted. We know these figures down to the campus level for 1,100 schools thanks to the National Study of Learning, Voting and Engagement. “Campuses get these numbers and say, ‘What?’,” said Nancy Thomas, who directs the Institute for Democracy and Higher Education at Tufts University, which conducts the study. “The numbers were so appalling.” There are indications that the times may be a-changin’ once again, however. On hundreds of colleges and universities today, administrators, faculty members and students are acting to integrate civic engagement into their schools’ educational missions, building it into curriculum and campus life and giving their students guidance, encouragement and tools to register and vote. “Colleges and universities have been willing to take a hard look at their data and put in the work to create comprehensive action plans and implement them — all based on what we know the best practices are for engaging young people in elections,” said Jenn Brown, the executive director of Civic Nation, which runs the ALL IN Campus Democracy Challenge, a national nonpartisan initiative that, to date, has engaged 362 colleges and universities with 4.5 million students. The ALL IN Challenge is pursuing a collaborative innovation strategy similar to the tactics that have been successful for driving improvements in chronic and veterans’ homelessness and hospital patient safety. It has established a central node where colleges can join with others to make public their commitments to improving students’ civic education and voting behavior. Its staff helps schools craft detailed action plans, offer a platform and regular trainings through which schools can learn from one another about best practices, and recognize campus achievements with awards and bronze, silver, gold or platinum seals. When a campus joins the challenge, its first step is to form a campuswide working group. “Lots of good things are happening on campuses, but they happen in silos,” said Zaneeta Daver, who directs the ALL IN Challenge. “We want the campus to start working on this together as a community — Democrats, Republicans, Latinos, Asians, people from political science departments, student affairs, administration and so on.” Many schools base their plans on the reports they get from Tufts, which give them a nuanced picture of how active their students are — for example, students studying business, technology and science typically vote at lower rates than students in education, social sciences and the humanities — and form the basis for goal setting. The Challenge puts all the plans online. Of the 362 schools that have joined the Challenge to date, 161 have submitted plans for 2018. Of the 201 campuses that have voluntarily shared their voting data for 2016, 98 received a bronze seal (denoting a voting rate of 50 to 59 percent), 44 received silver (60 to 69 percent) and just one campus — the University of Baltimore — received gold (70 to 79 percent). So far, no campus has received a platinum seal (80 percent or better). The Challenge also honors schools that have made substantial gains. The school that showed the greatest improvement in 2016 in undergraduate voting was the University of Texas at Austin. “From the inception of our Civic Engagement Alliance three years ago, we’ve seen a 14.8 percent increase in voting from 2012 to 2016,” Susan T. Nold, director of the Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life, said. “Even compared to our state, students are turning out at higher rates.” The Civic Engagement Alliance is a nonpartisan initiative that connects dozens of campus organizations. One of its priorities is to make sure that students are registered. “The C.E.A. is tapping into students where they already are,” Ms. Nold said. “Athletic teams, dorms, arts groups, Greek life, cultural organizations, honors society — bringing registration to students not necessarily in the corners of campus interested in politics.” Student voting can be complex. Students have the option to vote via absentee ballot using their home address or in the district in which they’re domiciled while at college. (Students are often warned that their financial aid will be jeopardized if they register to vote in another state, Ms. Daver said, pointing out that this is not true.) In Texas, to be able to register another person to vote, you have to first go through a one-hour training to become a volunteer deputy registrar, a status that expires every even-numbered year. The state does not permit online voter registration. Students have to fill out a form and mail it or bring it in to a county office at least 30 days before the election. “We’re trying to have 250 V.D.R.s on campus at any one time,” said Kassie Barroquillo, the program coordinator of TX VOTES, which facilitates the U.T. Civic Engagement Alliance. “More than 90 percent are students, and they are passionate and quite competitive about who has registered the most people to vote.” Identification is often a barrier, particularly for out-of-state students. In Texas, a student ID card isn’t permissible for voting. In some places, however, students have fought to make things easier. In Louisiana, for example, students advocated successfully for a law that requires public universities to change their ID cards by January to comply with state voting requirements. Some universities, including Louisiana State University, have already complied. If you want to drive up voting rates, it’s important to get to know your local officials, Ms. Barroquillo adds. “They can make or break it.” The University of Texas at Austin now has a polling station on campus and is working to get a second for the November election. Building relationships with faculty is vital, too. If professors support the goals of civic education, they are more likely to remind students to vote, stress its importance and welcome visitors into classrooms to talk about voting. Last spring at U.T.-Austin, voluntary deputy registrars conducted voter registrations in over 30 classrooms, some with hundreds of students. The ALL IN Challenge tracks successes, particularly those that are unexpected, around the country and connects campus representatives so they can share experiences and lessons learned. There are clear patterns and strategies that account for success. “The biggest thing is fully integrating voter registration into orientation,” Ms. Brown said. Campuses with high turnouts also integrate voter registration where students gather, like concerts and sporting events. Some train resident advisers to do registrations. Some ask students to create a plan indicating how and when they’re going to vote and then email those plans back to them, or provide text reminders. “Making a plan is really important,” Ms. Brown said. “We’ve also seen success with early vote events, and students walking to polls together or organizing bus caravans, where it becomes a campuswide act that’s fun and easy to participate in,” Ms. Brown added. “People are constantly coming together on college campuses for celebrations. Making Election Day one of those is something we want to replicate around the country.” (Another Civic Nation initiative — Vote Together — provides tool kits for anyone on or off campus who wants to throw a voting party.) “Over the past 10 to 15 years, there’s been a growing body of scholarship about how colleges can, in a nonpartisan, evidence-based way, include lessons in civic engagement,” said Elizabeth C. Matto, who directs the Center for Youth Political Participation at Rutgers University-New Brunswick and is a co-editor of “Teaching Civic Engagement Across the Disciplines.” “It’s not enough to instill students with political knowledge if you want them to be politically engaged. There has to be citizen skill-building — with opportunities for students to build confidence, whether it’s organizing a voter-registration drive, engaging in a democratic simulation or addressing social problems in their communities.” “For at least 20 years, colleges and universities have been dodging the political side of learning, and it has come back to bite them,” Ms. Thomas, of Tufts, said. “They have to become less afraid. This is about educating for the democracy we want — not the one we have — and what we want is a democracy in which a lot of people participate.” Among other things, Ms. Thomas’s institute recommends that colleges and universities establish permanent coalitions to promote political learning and participation, cultivate facilitators to support campuswide political discussions and embed learning about political and policy issues into courses. Meanwhile, students continue to face barriers. In Florida, for instance, a battle is being waged to challenge a law that prohibits college and university buildings from being used for early voting. As Franklin D. Roosevelt said, “Nobody will ever deprive the American people of the right to vote except the American people themselves — and the only way they could do that is by not voting at all.” Mark your calendars: The midterm Election Day is Nov. 6 Some Resources to Tap:  Turbovote (Sign up to receive election reminders, get registered to vote and apply for absentee ballots) Campus Vote Project (Works to reduce barriers to student voting) Students Learn Students Vote (A coalition promoting civic learning and engagement on campuses across the country) Vote.org (Offers tools to help with voter registration; provides election information and reminders) Rock the Vote (Voting assistance with a rights-based orientation) Asian and Pacific Islander American Vote (Mobilizes Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders in electoral and civic participation) Voto Latino (Offers assistance with voter education and registration, immigration, social justice, health and professional development for Latinos) Overseas Citizen Voter (Voting assistance for service members, their families and overseas citizens) All In to Vote (One-stop site for voter information being developed by the ALL IN Challenge. Scheduled to go live in late August)