Adrian Piper is a conceptual artist and analytic philosopher based in Berlin. She has been written about often this year because of the retrospective of her work now on view at the Museum of Modern Art, “Adrian Piper: A Synthesis of Intuitions, 1965-2016,” the largest show the museum has ever assembled for a living artist. But that coverage has been generated by others, not by Piper herself, and it has not dealt in detail with her work and career in philosophy. This extended interview with Piper, conducted by email in May and June, attempts to fill those gaps. Piper received her doctorate in philosophy from Harvard University in 1981, under the supervision of John Rawls, and went on to publish articles and books principally on metaethics, the history of ethics and the thought of Immanuel Kant. She has taught at many universities, including Georgetown (where in 1987 she became the first tenured African-American female professor in the field of philosophy), Harvard, Stanford, and at Wellesley, which terminated her full professorship in 2008, after she moved to Berlin and decided not to return to the United States. The MoMA retrospective remains on view through July 22. Lauren O’Neill-Butler: You arrived at philosophy in the 1960s through your work as an artist. Judging from your retrospective at MoMA, it seems the two fields were never mutually exclusive for you. Is that correct? Adrian Piper: Yes, that is definitely true for me. Each field calls on different capacities of the mind — philosophy on intellection, critical reflection and cognitive discrimination; art on perception, intuition and visualization — even though bringing a work in either field to completion requires the involvement of all of these capacities. But I would go further and suggest that any two disciplines are never in themselves necessarily mutually exclusive for anyone. Those who are inclined to exercise their abilities in more than one creative discipline (and philosophy is no less a creative discipline than art) are not usually also inclined to the kind of binary, either/or thinking that permits activity in one only at the expense of another. The pressure to choose between them usually comes from external sources, such as families, colleagues in either or both fields, or administrative officials. I was very fortunate to grow up in a family that encouraged all forms of creative expression. The APRA Foundation Berlin Multi-Disciplinary Fellowship tries to give some of that back, by promoting multidisciplinarity as a counterbalance to socially imposed uniformity and unidimensional creative development. I believe we are going to need to cultivate these multiple inner resources in order to successfully navigate the challenges of globalization and cross-cultural travel. I never consciously aim for or even think about any particular connection between my work in art and my work in philosophy. But what I notice in retrospect is an exchange of information between them of a sort that informs both, each in its own way. As to how that manifests in each field, that depends on the specifics of the philosophical text or artwork in question. The creative process in art has its own logic, and the creative process in philosophy has a different logic. In both cases, the process tells me what I need to do, and I just do it. Thinking about what it means and how it all relates comes later — much later. L.O.B.: Could we take an example from the show, to discuss how an artwork works philosophically? A.P.: There are several works in the MoMA retrospective that deploy the device of mimicry, of echoing back familiar rationalizations. For example, you’ll find that device in “Four Intruders Plus Alarm Systems” (1980) and “Decide Who You Are #15: You Don’t Want Me Here” (1992). During the time these works were being produced, my philosophy work was undergoing a couple of processes that I now see as connected. First, I was making my way through the jungle of higher education in philosophy (which I describe in detail in “Escape to Berlin: A Travel Memoir”) and also developing the account of pseudorationality that informs the second half of Volume II of my philosophic work “Rationality and the Structure of the Self.” I believe that my experiences in academia were the source of that account and that the uses of mimicry in these and other artworks were reflections or examples of it. But as to which came first, and what influenced what, these are questions I find impossible to answer. L.O.B.: What would you say to someone who believes art can’t do much in terms of resisting oppression and transforming racist attitudes? A.P.: I would ask such individuals what they think can do much in resisting oppression and transforming racist attitudes. I would ask them whether they think Rosa Parks’s inaction, of simply sitting there in her seat on the bus and refusing to move did much in terms of resisting oppression and transforming racist attitudes. If it turns out that the only initiative that, in their view, can do much in terms of resisting oppression and transforming racist attitudes would be a massive and continuing organizing effort funded by the Gates Foundation, which is unlikely to happen, I would infer that this belief conveniently relieves them of the responsibility of resisting oppression and transforming racist attitudes whenever and wherever they encounter them in the course of their daily lives. For example, do such individuals protest to the policeman who is patting down an African-American teenager on the subway platform? Or do they look away? Do they refuse to cooperate with the workplace scapegoating of the lone African-American token in the office? Or do they go along with it in order to keep their jobs? Do they seek out and patronize African-American-owned places of business? Or are those places of business too far away to be convenient? Do they live in an integrated neighborhood? Or do they feel that would be too unsafe? If emulating what Rosa Parks did on her way home from work is too much for them, then they have no right to complain that art does too little.  L.O.B.: For decades you’ve written about Kantian theory but you’re also trained in Vedic philosophies. In terms of exploring self-consciousness, what connects both for you? A.P.: Despite my best efforts, I have been unable to find any concrete evidence that Kant had direct knowledge of Vedic philosophies. But the similarities are so many and so striking that it is hard to believe he didn’t. Kant’s concept of a detached, observing consciousness that unifies our experience is very similar to the Samkhyan concept of Purusha. His analysis of truly ethical action as justified by its intentions rather than its consequences is very similar to the yogic doctrine of Vairagya in the “Bhagavad Gita.” And his transcendental idealism shares so much in common with Shankara’s Vedantic doctrine of Maya that they could almost be in direct dialogue. To study both Kant and Vedic philosophy in conjunction is to supply for the Vedic concepts a detailed philosophical analysis in the Western tradition, and to supply for Kant a concrete practical application in the Vedic tradition. Kant provides the road map, Vedic philosophy the destination. Together they bridge the gap between theory and practice that was opened by the self-protective reaction to Socrates’ execution on the part of subsequent Greek philosophers. L.O.B.: Your major philosophical books “Rationality and Structure of the Self,” Volumes 1 and 2, are self-published and available to read on your personal website. Why did you take that route? A.P.: Actually both volumes are published by my foundation, the APRA Foundation Berlin. I made the decision to go this route because after Cambridge University Press had accepted both volumes for publication, its marketing department then demanded that I cut 100 pages from each volume in order to make it easier to sell them. Open-access publication has made it as easy as possible to read them, and therefore virtually impossible to deliberately misrepresent their content. These benefits are much more important to me than any financial ones.  L.O.B.: Why focus on rationality and anomaly? A.P.: Rationality is the permanent and foundational obsession of the field, whether in the foreground or in the background, because it is constitutive of the methodology and content of the discipline. But attention to deviations from rationality is usually confined to mere failures to meet its requirements — for example, failures to reason clearly, to make fine-grained distinctions, to calculate consequences correctly, to apply the right principles to the appropriate cases, etc. The really interesting deviations — cases that call into question the adequacy of those principles themselves — are systematically ignored, in order to protect the status quo of race and gender homogeneity in the profession. These are the deviations that require the revision or replacement of these principles in order to explain entirely new empirical discoveries — for example, of a mathematical genius who happens to be a woman! Or a “white”-looking person who publicly acknowledges her African ancestry! Or a person who violates both masculine and feminine stereotypes! From the point of view of traditional habits of reasoning and conceptualization, these are human anomalies, analogous to empirical anomalies in the physical sciences. Human anomalies receive little or no attention in philosophy, because they destabilize those deeply embedded conventions of thought in the field that undergird most of the research that goes on in it. Now, if you happen to be one of those anomalies, this stubborn, phlegmatic resistance to your very existence becomes very interesting indeed. You can’t help thinking, what is making these smart people suddenly so stupid? And even worse, what is making these nice people suddenly so evil? What are the cognitive mechanisms by which their abilities to think clearly, make fine-grained distinctions, apply moral principles consistently, etc., are suddenly deteriorating noticeably in your presence? Once you start asking these questions, you are in the same ballpark as Thomas Kuhn was when he started asking similar questions about anomalous empirical events as a cause of professional resistance to theory change in the physical sciences. Resistance to anomaly is always about a choice to protect the familiar and convenient against the disruptive effect of difference; and resistance to human anomaly in particular is always about a choice to protect the personal advantages of segregation against the disruptive effect of integration by the Other. Kant’s “Critique of Pure Reason” provides the best and most thorough analysis of this phenomenon I’ve ever seen.  L.O.B.: You also demonstrate how philosophical controversies that lit up the 18th century are still burning strong today — as so many protest movements are also showing us, including Black Lives Matter. What strategies, if any, could that movement take away from your writings? A.P.: My work in philosophy does not presume to tell anyone what to do. It addresses the foundations of ethics — metaethics — rather than normative ethics. So it does not prescribe any particular strategies for action to anyone. These can be meaningfully formulated only by those who are directly involved in and therefore maximally well informed about the circumstances under which action is required. However, perhaps my work can offer a way of understanding what is at stake in the Black Lives Matter movement that may be of use. The basic argument of “Rationality and the Structure of the Self” is organized around the distinction between egocentric and transpersonal rationality. Transpersonal rationality consists in hard-wired cognitive dispositions that define us as human beings: to consistency, coherence, impartiality, impersonality, intellectual discrimination, foresight, deliberation, self-reflection and self-control. Egocentric rationality consists in placing these dispositions in the service of satisfying our personal desires and advancing our self-interest. It is easy to conceive the Black Lives Matter movement as merely advancing the self-interest of African-Americans in surviving and flourishing within a society whose self-interest is systemically opposed to this. This reduces the impetus for protest to a conflict of interests between those who join or support this movement and those who resist it — as though all that were at stake were whether or not police are justified in being so terrified of an African-American teenager that shooting him in the back is a defensible preventive measure. To conceive the issue merely in these terms turns it into a contest as to whose interests are to prevail — those who see trigger-happy police as protecting their interests or those who see them as sabotaging theirs. This view of the situation lends itself to the conclusion that the United States is still fighting the same race war it was in 1860. There is a lot of truth to this view. But it ignores the fact that the Black Lives Matter movement is not fighting merely to protect and advance the interests of African-Americans. It is fighting to cultivate a fundamental level of humanity in all Americans. The transpersonally rational dispositions I’ve listed constitute the ancient foundation of the historically recent idea of a universal human right that extends basic freedoms, responsibilities, rights and resources to every human being, regardless of their interests — not merely to those whom the police are personally inclined to protect. That African-Americans have survived and flourished for 400 years by resisting an environment devoted to dehumanizing them demonstrates quite conclusively how highly their capacities for transpersonal rationality are developed. The statement that black lives matter is a reminder to those whose perpetuation of that environment has effectively dehumanized them to develop those capacities just as highly; i.e. that their own humanity also matters. L.O.B.: Do you have an ideal reader for these books? A.P.: To really read any discursive text, whether a philosophical tract or a legal contract, is a disturbing and cognitively disorienting experience, because it means allowing another person’s thoughts to intrude into your own and rearrange your beliefs and assumptions — often not in ways to which you would consent if warned in advance. Even when you deliberately decide to learn something new by reading, you put yourself, your thoughts and your most cherished suppositions in the hands of the author and trust her or him not to reorganize your mind so thoroughly that you no longer recognize where or who you are. It’s very scary; hard, painstaking work of determined concentration under the best of circumstances. So particularly with philosophical texts, the whole point of which is to reorganize your thinking, people often don’t really read them at all; they merely take a mental snapshot of the passage that enables them to form a Gestalt impression of its content, without scrutinizing it too closely. This “snapshot” approach to reading protects the reader against the potentially disruptive mental effects of the text, while enabling enough of it to filter through to ensure at least a minimal comprehension of its content. But it also enables misunderstanding and misrepresentation of what the text actually says that can be so profound as to invalidate the gesture of reading it in the first place. In the last 40 years, a highly regarded tradition in one part of the field of Kant scholarship has developed that is predicated on deliberately disregarding what Kant actually says. My worst nightmare for “Rationality and the Structure of the Self” is a reader who approaches the text with this “snapshot” habit of reading. I worked hard to make the prose style of this work as clear and accessible as possible, given the complexity of the argument. All I ask of an ideal reader is that they take the time to really read it. L.O.B.: You’ve said that an epistemic skepticism drives your work. Could you elaborate? A.P.: As an attitude rather than a philosophical position, epistemic skepticism consists in always second-guessing your own judgments — about yourself, other people and situations; always monitoring those judgments to make sure you’re seeing clearly, have the facts right, aren’t making any unfounded inferences or deceiving yourself, etc. Women are particularly skilled at this because their judgment, credibility and authority start to come under attack during puberty, as part of the process of gender socialization. They are made to feel uncertain about themselves, their place in society and their right to their own opinions. If that socialization doesn’t work, they can’t be made to obey, to defer and to depend on others to make important decisions for them. Obviously this is a horrible, misogynistic practice, now known as “gaslighting” after the 1944 George Cukor film. But the benefit is precisely this self-critical attitude — of careful review of and reflection on the adequacy of one’s own thought processes. This attitude actually does put into concrete practice the philosophical position of epistemic skepticism that has a very long and honorable history going back to Descartes and even further back to Socrates. It has had a very beneficial effect on my work in philosophy because my judgment, my credibility and my authority to make philosophical pronouncements started coming under attack from the moment I entered the professional part of the discipline. The challenges, slights and attempts at intimidation were unremitting. In part, I have the self-confidence my parents gave me to thank for surviving them. But there is no doubt in my mind that this female reflex of self-doubt and self-criticism also had a lot to do with it. I don’t deceive myself into believing that all of my philosophical views are right. But thanks to that reflex, they are well grounded. L.O.B.: What do you consider among your most important achievements? A.P.: I can name four off the top of my head: (1) To have taken care of my mother during the last two years before her death from emphysema. (2) To have escaped from the United States with my life. (3) To have successfully treated most of my post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms myself, by writing “Escape to Berlin.” (4) To have finished “Rationality and the Structure of the Self “at the same standard of quality I apply when I criticize other philosophers’ work — thereby demonstrating to my own satisfaction that it is not an unrealistic or impossible standard to meet. Of course you do have to be willing to get kicked out of the field in order to meet it. You’ll notice that I haven’t included the MoMA retrospective in this list. That’s because that was not my achievement, but rather the curators’ and MoMA’s achievement. My contribution was to refuse to ship the work unless MoMA formally, in writing, respected the curators’ final selection of works exactly as they had compiled it. That meant significant budgetary adaptations on MoMA’s part; and the fact that everyone involved rose to that challenge in order to serve the best interests of the institution commands my undying gratitude and admiration. It’s why MoMA is MoMA.  L.O.B.: What are you working on now? How do you feel it relates to your past? A.P.: In philosophy, I’m finishing up my exegetical study “Kant’s Metaethics: First Critique Foundations of His Theory of Action.” The book has two main aims: first, to demonstrate that it is not possible to make sense of Kant’s ethics without a firm basis of reference in the “Critique of Pure Reason”; and second, to show how that interpretation of Kant’s ethics can help solve certain longstanding problems in Ramsey-Savage decision theory — while reciprocally, that standard version of decision theory can help solve certain longstanding problems in Kant’s ethics. These two fields have regarded each other as mortal enemies across the purportedly unbridgeable Kant-Hume divide for over a century. It’s time to put that animus aside and bring the conceptual resources of each into a project of mutual cooperation. My conviction that this is the right direction for Kant scholarship to take has been growing steadily ever since I first started reading Kant as an art student at the School of Visual Arts roughly 50 years ago. It received a huge boost when I began studying decision theory with Rawls at Harvard roughly 45 years ago. Thinking about the relationship between these two bodies of scholarship has been a beacon of light — of reason, reflection and the pleasure of pure thought for its own sake — that has nourished my love of philosophy and helped me to survive the punishment meted out by the profession. Because actually doing philosophy has always functioned for me as a sanctuary and a solace, there is nothing the profession could do to me that would ever destroy the pleasure I take in it. Looking back, I’m quite proud of having protected my commitment to the discipline in the face of all that. In art, I’m working on a new piece called “The Pixel Grayscale System of Human Classification.” The title is pretty much self-explanatory. It proposes a constructive, value-neutral alternative to the sick and outmoded system of “racial” classification we have inherited from 19th-century pseudoscience. Of course it will be very inconvenient for those whose self-worth or social advantages depend on locating themselves within that outmoded system. But adaptation is the price of progress. I started researching this topic for a biology term paper in high school when I was 14. The findings were quite clear, and the science is now over a century old. So it has always been obvious to me that the fantasy of racial difference has no foundation in genetic fact. It is merely the last outpost of segregation, the kind that exists only in the minds of those who think they need it as a source of status and self-differentiation. I feel the need to present a concrete alternative that might free us to jettison that crutch and replace it with a solid and realistic criterion of self-identification that nevertheless cannot be confused with tangential issues of self-worth or social status.