We all have it wrong, or at least we’re all being too literal. With Scott Pruitt’s exit, the Trump administration isn’t saying goodbye to the head of the Environmental Protection Agency. It’s losing its mascot. Just as a giant duck represents the University of Oregon and Duke has its blue devil, Donald Trump had Pruitt, who was less a steward of breathable air than an emblem of ethical rot. He was one-stop shopping for the gaudy marriage of unprofessionalism and amorality that defines this presidency. He gave that union a mystifyingly smiley face. Put Ritz-Carlton moisturizer on it. Then flew it first-class to Rome. It fell to Pruitt to embody the entire Trump ethos — grab what you can, exploit your insider status, lift nepotism to an art form and carom through the corridors of power with flashing lights and screaming sirens — in one heedless, shameless bureaucrat. He took this assignment seriously, and aced it. Which is why it’s sort of sad to see him go. Sort of surprising, too. Why quit when you’ve already endured all the mortification that he has? Why not crawl, in your reduced and pitiable form, to the finish line and at least get points for stamina? It’s not as if Pruitt is saving himself from exposure as a fun-size Trump-in-training. It’s not as if he can keep those true colors hidden. They’re vivid and ugly and indelible, and came out somewhere on the timeline between the construction of a $43,000 soundproof booth for his most important calls and his insistence that aides pick up his dry cleaning, find out about the procurement of a used mattress from the Trump International Hotel in Washington, look into the acquisition of a Chick-fil-A franchise for his wife, and retroactively delete official events on his calendar that he didn’t want remembered for posterity. Several of these errands may actually constitute federal crimes. Yes, I know, he wasn’t really the one who decided that the jig was up, and when we’re told that President Trump “accepted the resignation” that Pruitt tendered, it’s laughable code for the president’s telling him not to let the phone booth’s door hit him on the way out. But why should the president care anymore? Correction: Why should the president pretend to care? It’s not like he’s preserving his cabinet’s reputation for integrity. That yacht sailed long ago. I spotted Steven Mnuchin and Louise Linton in its stateroom, sharing a bottle of Cristal with Javanka. There are so many crazy details in Pruitt’s cockamamie tenure that it’s easy to overlook crucial aspects of it. Before he’s relegated to this White House’s dustbin of has-beens, where he’ll find the ashes of Anthony Scaramucci and stray tufts of Sean Spicer, let’s review some of them. As White House reporters monitored President Trump’s evolving feelings about Pruitt and the multiplying investigations into his conduct, they noted Trump’s frustration with all the negative attention that Pruitt was attracting. The president cared about the distractions, the disruption and the bad press. But what about the bad acts? There was little indication that Trump was appalled at Pruitt’s behavior itself, and that’s a telling, damning sign of what matters to this president and what doesn’t. Pruitt’s greed and grift: These were permissible, because these were familiar. Pruitt’s inability to quiet the noise around him was the real problem. Trump doesn’t judge people by what they do. He judges them by how they look. And in the context of this administration, Pruitt didn’t look a quarter as bad as he would have in any other. Plutocrats to the left of him, scammers to the right: He kept company with a health and human services secretary (Tom Price) who racked up steep bills for unnecessary private planes; a commerce secretary (Wilbur Ross) accused of insider trading; a treasury secretary (Mnuchin) who went eclipse-viewing on the government’s time and dime; and a housing secretary (Ben Carson) with a taste for expensive office furniture. Price bit the dust, but the others, still around, are no doubt in mourning now. As long as Pruitt was in their midst, they weren’t at the bottom of the class and we in the news media had our hands full with him. That’s one of the scary potential legacies of Pruitt, along with his excessively aggressive rollback of environmental protections and his complacency about climate change. He set an example of conduct so egregious that other wrongdoing looks amateurish and marginal. He simultaneously validated the cynicism that so many Americans have developed about why people go into government and how they exercise their power. If Pruitt, Price & Co. are what we come to expect, then we can expect a lot more of them. Trump stuck with Pruitt until last week partly because he couldn’t afford any more turnover in his chaotic operation. He has been in office less than two years but is already on his third national security adviser. This administration burns through senior and junior people, and there’s hardly a deep pool of willing talent with which to replace them. More like an evaporating puddle. That’s an important part of the Pruitt story and just the kind of thing that gets lost in the nuttiness of it all — in the $100,000-a-month charter aircraft membership that he apparently contemplated and the $1,560 of taxpayers’ money that he spent on fancy pens and his itch to ride around in a vehicle that, like the president’s, was specially armored. Pruitt was a mess all right, but he was also a mirror, reflecting a boss for whom governing is an act of epic self-aggrandizement. He channeled Trump’s ludicrously grandiose articulation of his mission. He mimicked Trump’s convenient invocation of God. “My desire in service to you has always been to bless you,” he wrote in his resignation letter. “I believe you are serving as president today because of God’s providence. I believe that same providence brought me into your service.” I believe that I just burst a capillary rolling my eyes. For a good long while, Pruitt’s emulation of the president and overwrought obsequiousness gave him favored-child status, and I thought that perhaps he was inoculated from punishment, just as he was immune from shame. I was wrong. It turns out that while the Trump administration has interred many principles that we cherished and assumed were keepers, karma isn’t among them. It eventually came for Scott Pruitt. Will it ever catch up with the president? This article has been updated. 