A new volume offers insight into the personal and political life of one of the 20th century’s most influential freedom fighters.  By The Editors During the 27 years of his imprisonment — from Nov. 7, 1962 to Feb. 11, 1990 — Nelson Mandela wrote hundreds of letters — to prison officials, family and friends. The most complete collection of these letters to date, “The Prison Letters of Nelson Mandela,” will be published next week. The publication coincides with what would have been Mandela’s 100th birthday, on July 18, 2018.  The volume contains more than 250 letters — well more than half of them previously unpublished. The excerpts below, provided exclusively to The New York Times, offer a first look at these unpublished letters. Mr. Mandela was 44 years old and the father of five young children when he was first sent to prison. The writing and receiving of letters during his incarceration allowed him to maintain his political purpose of overturning South Africa’s apartheid government, to nurture his relationships with his family and friends, and to express in words his deeply held convictions and beliefs.  Many of the letters speak directly to the pain and challenges of being held apart from his family. Letter writing and mail was severely restricted by prison authorities, and many of Mr. Mandela’s letters were censored or never delivered. In an official letter of complaint to officials 12 years into his imprisonment, Mr. Mandela wrote, “I sometimes wish science could invent miracles and make my daughter get her missing birthday cards and have the pleasure of knowing that her Pa loves her, thinks of her and makes efforts to reach her whenever necessary. It is significant that repeated attempts on her part to reach me and the photos she has sent have disappeared without trace whatsoever.” These letters provide detailed accounts of the personal, ethical and political life of Mr. Mandela during the nearly 10,000 days of confinement and punishment he endured in South Africa’s prisons.  April 2, 1969 Writing to his wife Winnie nearly seven years into his imprisonment, Mr. Mandela shares his thoughts on the power of positive thinking. “The Power of Positive Thinking” and “The Results of Positive Thinking” both written by the American psychologist Dr. Norman Vincent Peale, may be rewarding to read. The municipal library should stock them. I attach no importance to the metaphysical aspects of his arguments, but I consider his views on physical and psychological issues valuable.   He makes the basic point that it is not so much the disability one suffers from that matters but one’s attitude to it. The man who says: I will conquer this illness and live a happy life, is already halfway through to victory. … Remember that hope is a powerful weapon even when all else is lost. You and I, however, have gained much over the years and are making advances in important respects. You are in my thoughts every moment of my life. Nothing will happen to you darling. You will certainly recover and rise. Nov. 3, 1969 In 1969, Mr. Mandela was not permitted to attend the funeral of his son Thembi, who had died in a car accident. In this letter to Adelaide Sam Mase, the sister-in-law of his first wife, Evelyn Mandela, he reflects on the loss of his son, and on his reading of Christian scriptures, during which he refers to St. Paul as a “perfect pest” who would not quit in his persistence and mission. Thembi’s death was a painful experience to all of us. This was particularly so for me, especially when one takes into account the fact that I had not seen him for 5 years, and that my application for permission to attend the funeral was not granted. I will never forget Thembi. … I read the fresh and meaningful passages from the scriptures to which Mqwati kindly referred me. …[T]he importance of the passages quoted by him lies in the fact that they tell us of a way of life which would have brought us peace and harmony many centuries ago, if mankind had fully accepted and faithfully practiced the teachings they contain. They visualize a new world where there will be no wars, where famine, disease and racial intolerance will be no more, precisely the world for which I am fighting … The lives and actions of prominent religious men show that those who fight for a new order need not divorce theory from practice. Moses shared common hardships with his countrymen in Egypt and eventually led them physically from slavery to the Promised Land. In his efforts to establish the Christian Church, St. Paul came into conflict with established authority and vested interests. The advocate who prosecuted him is reported to have said: “The plain truth is that we find this man a perfect pest; he stirs up trouble amongst the Jews the world over, and is ringleader of the Nazarene Sect.” Thereafter this “Nazarene Sect” was to spread to almost every corner of the globe and be embraced by many nations as their state religion. The man who was described as a perfect pest later became a saint loved and respected by millions of Christians throughout the world. Feb. 4, 1969 Mr. Mandela wrote many letters to his children, and often attempted to soften the confusion and feeling of abandonment his young daughters must have felt, before they could understand why their father was not at home. This letter was written to his daughters Zenani and Zindzi. Zindzi says her heart is sore because I am not at home and wants to know when I will come back. I do not know, my darlings, when I will return. You will remember that in the letter I wrote in 1966, I told you that the white judge said I should stay in jail for the rest of my life. It may be long before I come back; it may be soon. Nobody knows when it will be, not even the judge who said I should be kept here. But I am certain that one day I will be back at home to live in happiness with you until the end of my days. Do not worry about me now. I am happy, well and full of strength and hope. The only thing I long for is you, but whenever I feel lonely I look at your photo, which is always in front of me. It has a white frame with a black margin. It is a lovely photo. For the last two years I have been asking Mummy to send me a group photo with Zindzi, Zeni, Maki, Kgatho, Nomfundo and Kazeka. But up to now I have not received it. The photo will make me even more happy than I am at the present moment. July 1, 1970 Mr. Mandela wrote to his wife Winnie after a visit from Thoko, the widow of his son Thembi, whose father had recently died. He reflects on the persistence of hope in the face of repeated tragedy, and restates his commitment to the cause of the anti-apartheid struggle. When I think of the disasters that had invaded us over the past 21 months, I very often wonder what gives us the strength and courage to carry on. If calamities had the weight of physical objects we should long have been crushed down, or else, we should by now have been hunchbacked, unsteady on our feet, and with faces full of gloom and utter despair. Yet my entire body throbs with life and is full of expectations. Each day brings a fresh stock of experiences and new dreams. I am still able to walk perfectly straight and firmly. What is even more important to me is the knowledge that nothing can ever ruffle you and that your step remains as fleet and graceful as it has always been — a girl who can laugh heartily and infect others with her enthusiasm. Always remember that this is how I think of you. … We fight against one of the last strongholds of reaction on the African Continent. In cases of this kind our duty is a simple one — at the appropriate time to state clearly, firmly and accurately the aspirations that we cherish and the greater South Africa for which we fight. Our cause is just. It is a fight for human dignity and for an honorable life. Nothing should be done or said which may be construed directly or indirectly as compromising principle, not even the threat of a more serious charge and severe penalty. In dealing with people, be they friends or foe, you are always polite and pleasant. This is equally important in public debates. We can be frank and outspoken without being reckless or abusive, polite without cringing, we can attack racialism and its evils without ourselves fostering feelings of hostility between different racial groups. Aug. 31, 1970 In this letter to his son Makgatho, Mr. Mandela regrets that he cannot be with him to celebrate his 20th birthday. He reminisces about Makgatho’s childhood and reveals his thoughts on fighting poverty. I have been reminiscing a great deal … Those were the days when you lived a happy life free of problems and fenced from all hardships and insecurity by parental love. You did not work, grub was galore, clothing was plentiful and you slept good. But some of your playmates those days roamed around completely naked and dirty because their parents were too poor to dress them and to keep them clean. Often you brought them home and gave them food. Sometimes you went away with double the amount of swimming fees to help a needy friend. Perhaps then you acted purely out of a child’s affection for a friend, and not because you had become consciously aware of the extremes of wealth and poverty that characterized our social life. I hope you’re still as keen today to help those who are hard-hit by want as you were then. It’s a good thing to help a friend whenever you can; but individual acts of hospitality are not the answer. Those who want to wipe out poverty from the face of the earth must use other weapons, weapons other than kindness. … This is not a problem that can be handled by individual acts of hospitality. The man who attempted to use his own possessions to help all the needy would be permanently ruined and in due course himself live on alms. Experience shows that this problem can be effectively tackled only by a disciplined body of persons, who are inspired by the same ideas and united in a common cause. March 1, 1971 This letter was written by Mr. Mandela to his daughter Zenani not long after her 12th birthday. He recalls a painful episode from her early childhood, and attempts to explain his separation from her, and why he was not able to live at home. … Your birth was a great relief to us. Only three months before this, Mummy had spent 15 days in jail under circumstances that were dangerous for a person in her condition. We did not know what harm might have been done to you and to her health, and were happy indeed to be blessed with a healthy and lovely daughter. Do you understand that you were nearly born in prison? Not many people have had your experience of having been in jail before they were born. You were only 25 months old when I left home and, though I met you frequently thereafter until January 1962 when I left the country for a short period, we never lived together again.  You will probably not remember an incident that moved me very much at the time and about which I never like to think. Towards the end of 1961 you were brought to the house of a friend and I was already waiting when you came. I was wearing no jacket or hat. I took you into my arms and for about ten minutes we hugged, and kissed and talked. Then suddenly you seemed to have remembered something. You pushed me aside and started searching the room. In a corner you found the rest of my clothing. After collecting it, you gave it to me and asked me to go home. You held my hand for quite some time, pulling desperately and begging me to return. It was a difficult moment for both of us. You felt I had deserted you and Mummy, and your request was a reasonable one. It was similar to the note that you added to Mummy’s letter of the 3rd December 1965 where you said: “Will you come home next year. My mother will fetch you with her car.” Your age in 1961 made it difficult for me to explain my conduct to you, and the worried expression that I saw in your face haunted me for many months thereafter. Luckily, however, you soon cooled down and we parted peacefully. But for days I was lost in thought, wondering how I could show you that I had not failed you and the family. When I returned to South Africa in July 1962 I saw you and Zindzi twice and this was the last time we met. In 1964 you were brought to the Supreme Court in Pretoria and I was quite disappointed when you were not allowed to see me. I have been longing to see you ever since. You will be able to pay me a visit me in 1975 when you will have turned 16. But I am growing impatient and the coming five years seem longer than eternity. Feb. 1, 1975 Prisoners spent long periods in solitary confinement. This passage from a letter to Winnie expresses Mr. Mandela’s ability to find positive aspects in isolation, and in prison as a place to cultivate a spiritual life. … [Y]ou may find that the cell is an ideal place to learn to know yourself, to search realistically and regularly the process of your own mind and feelings. In judging our progress as individuals we tend to concentrate on external factors such as one’s social position, influence and popularity, wealth and standard of education. These are, of course, important in measuring one’s success in material matters and it is perfectly understandable if many people exert themselves mainly to achieve all these. But internal factors may be even more crucial in assessing one’s development as a human being. Honesty, sincerity, simplicity, humility, pure generosity, absence of vanity, readiness to serve others — qualities which are within easy reach of every soul — are the foundation of one’s spiritual life. Development in matters of this nature is inconceivable without serious introspection, without knowing yourself, your weaknesses and mistakes. At least, if for nothing else, the cell gives you the opportunity to look daily into your entire conduct, to overcome the bad and develop whatever is good in you. Regular meditation, say about 15 minutes a day before you turn in, can be very fruitful in this regard. You may find it difficult at first to pinpoint the negative features in your life, but the 10th attempt may yield rich rewards. Never forget that a saint is a sinner who keeps on trying. … No ax is sharp enough to cut the soul of a sinner who keeps on trying, one armed with the hope that he will rise and win in the end. Aug. 19, 1976 Mr. Mandela writes to Winnie after learning that she had been arrested. He reflects on the power he acquires from writing, and a future that will produce “saints” motivated by love.  It’s always given me plenty of satisfaction and joy to write to you. I sincerely don’t know whether you’ll ever get this particular one nor those of July 18, Aug 1 and 18 and, if you do, when that’ll be. Nonetheless, the act of writing to you at this moment removes all the tensions and impurities in my feelings and thoughts. It’s the only time I ever feel that some day in the future it’ll be possible for humanity to produce saints who will really be upright and venerable, inspired in everything they do by genuine love for humanity and who’ll serve all humans selflessly. May 27, 1979 Mr. Mandela wrote to his friend Peter Wellman, a journalist, who recently sent him a telegram asking him to be godfather to his daughter. Here, he emphasizes the solace that communications from the outside world had given him. [T]hroughout the many years of incarceration numerous messages of good wishes and hope sent by people from different walks of life, have cut through massive iron doors and grim stone walls, bringing into the cell the splendor and warmth of springtime. No two messages are ever the same and each one has struck a special note. Yours was typical. Frankly, there are moments, like now, when I feel as if the whole world, or at least the greater part of it, has been squeezed into my tiny cell. I have comparatively more time to think and dream; obsessed with a sense of involvement and with far more friends than ever before. Tayari Jones on the prison letters of Nelson Mandela: An essay by the novelist on why the letters, with their detailed account of family separation, resonate so powerfully today.  These excerpts are adapted from “The Prison Letters of Nelson Mandela,” to be published next week by Liveright Publishing Corp., in cooperation with the Estate of Nelson Mandela and the Nelson Mandela Foundation in South Africa.