There has never been a cabinet official who has survived as many scandals as Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency — until his resignation Thursday. Mr. Pruitt faced up to 19 separate investigations into his conduct reflecting a stunning degree of disregard for federal ethics, special-interest and procurement rules. The sheer volume of investigations would be comic but for the harm Mr. Pruitt wrought. Although the mess he leaves behind will linger, Mr. Pruitt’s departure offers good news for the nation — but ominous portents for President Trump. The full extent of Mr. Pruitt’s ethics lapses were incredible even to those normally supportive of the president — the $43,000 soundproof room, the multimillion-dollar security details. He used special hiring authority to bring on ex-lobbyists and give raises to key aides; worst of all, he reportedly retaliated against agency employees who raised concerns about his spending or management. Mr. Pruitt’s near-complete disregard for taxpayers’ trust made for a great deal of work not only for the many government investigators probing his behavior, but also for journalists and government watchdogs. Our group alone filed 20 legal matters, including litigation focusing on Mr. Pruitt’s and the E.P.A.’s failure to produce documents about his actions — or even to create them. There are too many reported instances in which agency employees were instructed not to document meetings or often avoided the creation of certain documents — a brazen dodge of the laws requiring both preservation and production of such materials so the people know what our government is doing, and why. Mr. Pruitt’s departure may be reason for celebration, but the mess that he created is substantial. He has turned the agency into an ethics and regulatory Superfund site that will take years to clean up. Thanks largely to him, the ethics system at the E.P.A. is broken and in need of repair. Why did no one with authority in the agency step in to stop him, or support whistle-blowers who tried to speak the truth? The involvement of political appointees in this process, and the apparent fear of retaliation instilled in officials across the agency, suggest to us that the current system is unable to ensure that federal ethics standards are upheld. Nor are all the investigations into Mr. Pruitt likely to vanish just because he has resigned; if his use of public office for private gain has caught the eye of federal prosecutors, there may be more coming. And all that is before one gets to the alleged violations of law represented by the environmental policies Mr. Pruitt pushed through, also mired in the courts. That litigation is ongoing, and may be for years. The trust of the E.P.A.’s 14,000 dedicated, ethical federal career workers will also need to be repaired. Regaining the confidence of these employees, and that of the public in them, will be a tall order. The man at the E.P.A. charged with doing that hardly offers cause for comfort. Mr. Pruitt’s near-term replacement, Andrew Wheeler, has his own set of potential conflicts. Mr. Wheeler was one of 30 federal employees who allegedly violated Mr. Trump’s executive order barring former lobbyists from working in positions requiring them to manage issues they lobbied in the preceding two years. He previously worked as an energy industry lobbyist, first for Murray Energy, itself frequently a source of alleged campaign finance violations and improper influence, in 2009. Mr. Wheeler’s most recent clients before entering the administration included Energy Fuels Resources Inc., Xcel Energy and Bear Head LNG Corporation — all of which have interests before the E.P.A. According to his executive branch financial disclosure form, Mr. Wheeler also worked as a strategic adviser for Growth Energy, General Mills, Archer Daniels Midland and International Paper. Even if he proves to be a more ethical administrator, his ties to industries with a stake in the E.P.A.’s decisions run just as deep as Mr. Pruitt’s did — and so do his conflicts of interest. Given the extent of Mr. Pruitt’s scandals and the damage he leaves behind, it is a wonder that he survived so long. Some may point to the fact that he doggedly pursued Mr. Trump’s environmental agenda, including the shredding of Obama-era commitments to reduce greenhouse emissions in the power and transportation sectors, but we are not convinced — after all, that effort didn’t work out as well as he had hoped. A more likely explanation is that Mr. Trump did not want to let Mr. Pruitt go because the president was afraid of what it might mean for him. Mr. Trump too has endured in the face of mounting investigations and litigation. Between the Russia investigation, Michael Cohen’s potentially impending cooperation with the government, and a raft of civil cases, Mr. Trump surely knows that the legal flood around him is rising. Did he put off firing Mr. Pruitt because he was afraid to admit the taint of scandal on his administration? Mr. Pruitt’s case demonstrates that in America, no one is above the law and common decency. Even if it’s possible to hold off the flood after the cracks in the dam begin to appear, at some point the dam eventually breaks.