Angry footsteps upstairs. Screams. “I hate you!” Slam. Fists, on a bedroom door. Then, inevitably, the unified shriek: “MOOOOMMM!” That was the soundtrack of the year when my daughters were 11 and 12, shared a bedroom and fought like caged tigers. As a parent, I was at a loss. It seemed as though every meal or car ride ended in misery, and I was convinced that our family life was ruined. I thought they would be at each other’s throats forever, and there didn’t seem to be anything I could do about it. Brothers and sisters fight. Parent-reported and observational studies put the number of conflicts among young siblings (7 and under) at three to seven an hour. As the mother of four kids, now 12, 13, 14 and 17, I would have guessed way more. Those fights are particularly upsetting for parents, because we know how important sibling relationships are. Our hope is that our children will be one another’s playmates at home and allies out in the world, and that they will be there for one another long after we are gone. But the development of those bonds is more complex than many parents imagine. Siblings offer early, on-the-job training in how to work and live with other people. They also provide a crash course in how to manage intense emotions: envy, hatred, anger. In children of all ages, but especially younger children, the urge to compete for parental attention is innate. Among teenagers, sibling conflict helps them work out their need to differentiate from family and to set their own boundaries. Overall, research suggests the benefits of sibling disagreements include increased skills in understanding others, negotiating, persuading and problem solving. In other words, some fighting isn’t just inevitable — it’s educational. That doesn’t mean parents can’t, or shouldn’t, try to help children work through their clashes and strengthen their positive feelings about one another. There are always moments when parents needs to act, for their sakes (and sometimes their safety) or for our own sanity. But the road to harmony — or to a truce — will often challenge every rule parents think is sacred. Rules like no hitting one another, no stealing, no excluding. Then the hit comes after blatant instigation, the theft is retaliation for an offense so bad you never even thought to forbid it, and the sibling who wants to play with her big sister’s friends is the same one who blabbed the secrets shared at the last sleepover all over the playground. When it comes to sibling conflicts, there are rarely innocents. For the most part, kids who are hurting one another or getting hurt, physically or emotionally, were already doing something you’ve told them not to do, and you won’t know the truth until they’re giving the toasts at one another’s weddings. When all you know is that he said and then she said and then somebody did something and then there were tears, try this: Treat them equally. If there’s an injury that merits sympathy, gather everyone up. “Oh, that must really hurt where she hit you. Oh, you must have been so mad to do that. What can we do to make things better?” Alternatively, if you’re just frustrated with the lot of them, take it out on everyone equally. “That’s it, playtime is over. You — empty the dishwasher. You — bring down the laundry.” If everyone involved feels terrible, you can feel secure that you’re on the right track. But in our quest to help our children develop the bonds we imagined, parents often make things worse. We stick ourselves in the middle of their battles, favor one over the other or get drawn into their need that everything be “fair.” We expect too much in the way of affection or demand too little in the way of tolerating differences. Even at the most practical level, we fall short, sometimes laughably so, as Laurie Kramer, a professor of applied psychology at Northeastern University, has found. Many young parents might be inspired to look for shows or stories that teach warring siblings how to resolve disagreements. But when Dr. Kramer compared her More Fun With Sisters and Brothers program, which teaches children how to resolve conflicts with siblings, with a different program that exposed children to books and cartoons about managing sibling conflicts, she found that the children exposed to the media learned something else entirely. As described in Po Bronson and Ashley Merryman’s book “NurtureShock,” “After six weeks, the sibling relationship quality had plummeted.” Why? Because the stories also taught “novel ways to be mean to younger siblings.” In a later study of 261 books that portrayed sibling relationships, Dr. Kramer found that the average book showed as much bad behavior as good behavior. Everything gets so much easier when we accept that our job as parents isn’t to eliminate conflict but to mitigate its effects. Unfortunately, it’s easy to get that wrong, too. Parents often view our role in managing disputes as an either-or proposition: intervene or ignore. Either “good parents know that children need to be taught how to resolve conflict” (intervene) or “good parents know that conflict is about parental attention, and so they let children figure it out for themselves” (ignore). In theory, all you have to do is decide which kind of “good parent” you are. In practice there’s a continuum. Parents intervene by teaching children strategies for working things out, and then ignore by stepping back to allow them to apply what they’ve learned. In some cases, the best thing for battling siblings might be more time to work (or fight) it out. Children are spending more and more time in age-segregated activities. Meanwhile, houses have gotten bigger. Although many kids still share a room (as mine do), increasing numbers of children sleep on their own. With less need to resolve conflict and less time available in which to do it, some disputes may fester longer than they need to. But just as some kids need more time together, others need less. That turned out to be the case in my family. My girls had deeply intertwined lives. They needed to push each other away to find a relationship that wasn’t dictated by all that forced togetherness. I remembered what one father told me about his own kids: “They get along well, and they fight well.” My daughters had already learned to get along well. Now they had to learn to fight well, and when I stopped constantly intruding, they did. They pushed and they shoved and they said unforgivable things and then at some point, after what felt like far too long, they looked up and realized that they were still there. Still sisters, still family. Still somehow loving each other. And things got better. If that’s the lesson of all that fighting, I’ll take it. Although I do wish they could have done it without punching that hole in their wall.