The Trump administration, Republicans in Congress and conservative governors across the country want the government to be simpler, smaller and more effective — unless, that is, the government is dealing with the poor. In a matter of months, hundreds of thousands of low-income residents of Arkansas, New Hampshire and Indiana will have to convince local bureaucrats that they have a job or are on a path to getting one in order to receive Medicaid coverage. In a matter of weeks, Congress is likely to expand work requirements in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP. And if the Trump administration has its way, housing authorities will make their subsidies contingent on work. Such proposals are part of a grand, if quiet, Republican campaign to remake the entirety of the safety net in the model of welfare. The stated purpose of the effort is to help America’s poor, given that roughly one in seven Americans remain impoverished nearly a decade out from the Great Recession and given that a job is one of the surest paths out of poverty. But history shows that the result of the effort will be to strangle the safety net with red tape. The initiative is galling, given President Donald Trump’s boasts about slashing regulations and simplifying government. It is striking given the ample evidence of the ineffectiveness of work requirements, the negative impact of poverty on generation after generation and the power of cash. And it gives urgency to the argument that future administrations should give more to and demand less of lower-income Americans — up to and including showering them with money, no strings attached. Just giving people money: It’s a method backed by extensive research, and it has a bipartisan pedigree. But it is a method the Trump administration, which is likely to oversee a better economy than any administration in two decades, seems loathe to consider. Instead, the president is choosing to increase the ranks of the poor and to slash what support this country does offer those who need it. The White House’s splashiest ideas to remake the safety net — through the total repeal of the Affordable Care Act, the conversion of SNAP benefits into a Blue Apron-style delivery box and the merger of federal aid programs into a kind of Department of Welfare — have gone nowhere, and are likely to remain there. Yet the administration has advocated or implemented a number of smaller changes that could push millions of lower-income Americans out of the safety net and into whatever lies beneath. “Our guys have been in there since the start, grinding it out, and basically no one is noticing it,” Steve Bannon, formerly a White House adviser, has boasted. Those efforts build on and amplify changes made by Republican governors in red and purple states, as well as initiatives from Congress.  The general gist is to make the safety net more complicated, and more tied to personal circumstances. Unlike most other high-income countries and contrary to popular belief, the United States has no welfare entitlement — people aren’t getting cash free and easy just because they are poor. For decades, many recipients of benefits from SNAP and the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program have been required to work in exchange for aid. Republicans now seek to apply such work requirements to millions of people in other programs. The idea is to nudge poor Americans to work; just one in 20 people who works full-time is impoverished, after all. Yet study after study has shown that most of the participants in these programs are working if they can. Work requirements do little to aid individuals who would be working anyway, and nothing to aid individuals unfit for the labor force because of trauma, health issues, problems finding child care and so on. Take the work requirements that the Clinton administration added to T.A.N.F. in 1996. Research has shown that they had no effect on employment rates after five years, and that they increased the country’s extreme poverty rate. If the Trump White House’s effort goes forward, economists anticipate similar results on a much larger scale. Millions of adults will lose their health coverage — coverage that tends, ironically, to increase work participation rates. Millions more face nutritional insecurity, eviction and other miseries that stem from earning too little. Republicans would render the safety net threadbare, providing aid with significant conditions to groups of Americans in more and more specific circumstances. Such efforts have little to do with work. They have nothing to do with poverty alleviation. They have everything to do with stigma. They have everything to do with discipline and control. They have everything to do with race and racism. They convey, and not so tacitly, that the poor are poor because they choose to be. Indeed, the United Nations’ special rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, who recently took a tour of Puerto Rico, Alabama and West Virginia, among other places, has argued that the country is seeking to “stigmatize” those in need of help and undertaking a “systematic assault” on the safety net. What should the country be doing instead? Providing more to low-income families and requiring less of them, making programs more automatic and less paternalistic. Indeed, the country’s strongest anti-poverty programs are in many cases also its simplest. Social Security has slashed the poverty rate among seniors to less than 10 percent from more than 40 percent; a child is more than twice as likely to be impoverished as someone over the age of 65 these days. The earned-income tax credit — you work, you’re poor, you pay your taxes, you get it, more or less — has proved remarkably effective at encouraging single mothers to keep working, without stigmatizing them for not doing so or asking them to document their hours every month. It has drawn hundreds of thousands of women into the labor force and kept them there, all while lifting six million Americans a year out of poverty. The Trump administration, or a future, more evidence-friendly government, would do well to remake more programs in that image. One option would be to eliminate the welfare program and to replace it with a cash entitlement for poor children, focusing on the needs of younger Americans rather than the perceived inadequacies of their parents. In similarly wealthy countries, poor parents often get a lump-sum payment when a child is born, along with a monthly allowance for those first, critical years. In the United States, they are unlikely to get anything other than a smattering of tax credits. That is a primary reason the United States’ child poverty rate is so high. More broadly, the government could use the tax code to eliminate poverty by providing a guaranteed minimum income to all households, via something called a “negative income tax,” almost implemented during the Nixon administration. A group of prominent welfare economists recently examined such a policy and concluded it could be funded by getting rid of programs including SNAP, T.A.N.F. and the earned-income tax credit. Adding it onto what the government already does would cost something like $200 billion or $300 billion a year, which could be easily financed by repealing the Trump tax cuts and closing loopholes for rich companies and individuals. The most radical and potentially transformative idea would be to grant all Americans a monthly cash payment, a policy commonly known as a universal basic income. In the past few years — with the middle class being squeezed, trust in government eroding, technological change hastening, and the economy getting Uberized — the idea has vaulted to a surprising prominence, even moving from airy hypothetical to near-reality in some places. Mark Zuckerberg, Hillary Clinton, the Black Lives Matter movement, Bill Gates and Elon Musk are just a few of the policy proposal’s flirts, converts and supporters. Under such a proposal, Uncle Sam would send every American $500 or $1,000 a month, likely eliminating other stingier and less-effective programs. The price would be significant, though financing it would not raise taxes higher than they are in similarly prosperous countries. The benefits would flow not only to the very poor but also to working Americans given leverage to demand better wages, to the unemployed, to students, to the elderly, to caregivers, to young parents. In a society as rich as ours, the argument goes, everyone deserves a guarantee of financial security, and we’re better off trusting each citizen to make the best decision for herself. If the Trump administration wanted to have a program more rooted in work, turning the government into an employer of last resort would be another option, as was once suggested by the head of President Trump’s Council of Economic Advisers, Kevin Hassett. Local governments would provide a job on demand to anyone struggling to find and maintain one. Perhaps the biggest and most important change would be to stop judging the poor for their poverty, and to seek to repair the pernicious trauma of having too little money by just giving people money — nothing more and nothing less.