The recent primary upset of Joe Crowley, the fourth-ranking Democrat in the House, by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, showcased the electoral strength of her platform, which included single-payer health insurance and tuition-free college and trade school. But soon afterward, Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, and Tammy Duckworth, a Democratic senator from Illinois, dismissed Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s success as strictly a local phenomenon. “It’s just one district,” Mrs. Pelosi said at a news conference. Ms. Duckworth characterized Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory as the “future of the party in the Bronx,” telling CNN’s Jake Tapper, “I think that you can’t win the White House without the Midwest, and I don’t think you can go too far to the left and still win the Midwest.” But as they look to 2018 and beyond, Democratic Party leaders would do well to remember the electoral success and durability of native Midwestern progressivism. That tradition was forged largely in Wisconsin, once described by Theodore Roosevelt as a “laboratory for wise, experimental legislation aiming to secure the social and political betterment of the people as a whole.” Wisconsin progressives devised much of the New Deal, including the Social Security Act and the unemployment insurance program, as well as Great Society programs like Medicare. The result of the 2016 election, in which Hillary Clinton lost the presidency in part because her centrism failed to appeal to Midwesterners, shows the urgent need for a return to just such a tradition. Nowhere was this more apparent than in Wisconsin, which had not voted for a Republican presidential candidate since 1984 — until Donald Trump. In the Wisconsin Democratic primary, however, Senator Bernie Sanders won every county save one, and beat Mrs. Clinton by 13 points. Mr. Trump is not the first right-wing populist to make inroads in Wisconsin — after all, the voters there twice elected Joseph McCarthy to be their senator — but his visceral mixture of nativist and racial resentment, attacks on free trade and vigorous defense of Social Security and Medicare resonated in a time of economic insecurity, allowing him to cleave off a significant portion of the white working class, both urban and rural. Mr. Trump’s success exposes the electoral danger for Democrats in 2018 and 2020 as right-wing populism continues to gather strength worldwide. But paradoxically it also reveals that there may be room for the appeal of charismatic newcomers like Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and Randy Bryce, the union ironworker vying for House Speaker Paul Ryan’s congressional seat. Mr. Bryce’s campaign, which has emphasized labor rights, has galvanized Wisconsin’s progressive grass roots. The state’s progressive tradition dates back to the 1840s, when Scandinavian immigrants began settling in the area. Many were fleeing crop failures and devastating famines. The harshness of the environment they left behind helped forge a communitarian ethos that they brought with them to the United States. Those values also fostered an openness to social welfare programs, which is captured in the Swedish word “folkhemmet,” which means “the people’s home” and came to serve as a nickname for the welfare state. “It implies that all people should feel safe, protected here,” Julie Allen, a professor of Scandinavian studies at Brigham Young University, told me. The people’s home, Ms. Allen said, is about “lifting everyone up.” Egalitarianism led Scandinavian settlers to form agricultural cooperatives and to disproportionately support the trade union movement. Many also gravitated to the abolitionist principles of the new Republican Party, which was founded in a one-room schoolhouse in Ripon, Wis., in 1854. Abolitionist sentiment grew with an influx of German revolutionaries, who fled Germany in the middle of the 19th century after their rebellion failed at home. Many had been members of the Turnverein, or Turners, a physical-fitness movement that also encouraged liberal, and sometimes radical, politics. In Wisconsin, the Turners helped create a reformist Socialist movement whose ideology was not that far from that of Mr. Sanders and Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. In 1910, the Milwaukee Socialist Party elected a congressman, 14 state legislators and the first of three mayors. Purists derided it as “sewer socialism,” because it focused on winning prosaic (but nonetheless quite meaningful) gains for the working class like sewers and the country’s first workers’ compensation program. The pivotal figure of Wisconsin progressivism, Robert M. La Follette, who served as district attorney, congressman, governor and senator, instituted numerous reforms as governor — direct primaries, a ban on corporate donations to political candidates — to encourage active citizenship. “Democracy is a life,” La Follette wrote in his autobiography, “and involves continual struggle.” The success of Mr. Sanders and Mr. Bryce at energizing Wisconsin voters amplifies La Follette’s point: Progressive populism can blunt the lure of its right-wing counterpart. That was on display during the 2016 Democratic primary in Richland County, in southwestern Wisconsin. For decades, the county had been represented by a Republican state senator, Dale Schultz, who said that Mr. Sanders’s message of strengthening the welfare state and railing against economic elites resonated powerfully with his rural voters. Mr. Schultz noted that this anger stemmed in part from the declining living standards since the passage of Act 10, a landmark law Gov. Scott Walker signed in 2011 that gutted collective bargaining rights for public employees, made union dues voluntary and slashed the state’s contribution toward their health care premiums and pension benefits. Mr. Walker’s strain of right-wing populism also preyed on widespread economic insecurity. To build support for Act 10, he stoked resentment against public employees. “We can no longer live in a society where the public employees are the haves and taxpayers who foot the bills are the have-nots,” Mr. Walker said in his inaugural address in 2011. And while gerrymandering and dark money contributed to Republican political dominance in Wisconsin, it was also made possible by Democratic abandonment of the state’s progressive tradition, which had long emphasized public investment. Speaking of public employees, Jim Doyle, the departing Democratic governor, boasted to a reporter in 2010, “I’ve made deeper cuts than any governor’s ever made.” Despite Wisconsin’s low unemployment rate, the economic insecurity that Mr. Walker and Mr. Trump exploited still exists. New research by David Cooper, an economist at the left-leaning Economic Policy Institute, has shown that much of Wisconsin’s job growth is in low-wage industries, which offer few, if any, benefits. “When you strip away their benefits and people see their standard of living shrinking, well, there’s anger there,” Mr. Schultz, the former state senator, told me. Historically, Wisconsin voters channeled this kind of anti-establishment sentiment toward progressive ends, like the need for government to restrain the power of corporations. A warning from a law school commencement speech given by Chief Justice Edward G. Ryan of the Wisconsin Supreme Court in 1873 would come to embody this strain of Wisconsin’s populism. “The question,” Ryan said, “will arise, and arise in your day, though perhaps not fully in mine: Which shall rule — wealth or man; which shall lead — money or intellect; who shall fill public stations — educated and patriotic freemen, or the feudal serfs of corporate capital?” We face a similar decisive moment today. Recent polling has shown a country deeply divided, with the right now coalescing firmly behind Mr. Trump. Though Mr. Trump and Mr. Walker were adversaries during the 2016 election, Mr. Walker’s corporatist strain of right-wing populism has now been adopted by Mr. Trump, whose 2019 budget proposes cuts to the welfare state. The Supreme Court’s recent decision in the Janus case, which removes the requirement for public employees to pay agency fees to their unions, threatens to further entrench Republican dominance in this country by depleting a major Democratic funding source, just as Act 10 did in Wisconsin. To combat this newfound unity on the right, the Democratic Party should embrace the progressive populism that once flourished in Wisconsin and far beyond. That doesn’t mean every candidate needs to be a democratic socialist or a labor organizer. But it does require a return to the pragmatic idealism — to “lifting everyone up” — that once made Wisconsin a model for the country.