President Trump was always going to pick a conservative for the Supreme Court. The only question has been whether to replace Justice Anthony Kennedy with a “business conservative” or a “religious conservative.” No one seriously thought that he would consider a moderate, a liberal or an ideologically ambiguous replacement. Sure enough, Brett Kavanaugh is a conservative in good standing. The next Democratic president will nominate a liberal to the court in the hope of tilting it in the other direction. Everyone is so accustomed to this state of affairs that people have forgotten to question it. But we wonder whether a Supreme Court that has come to be rigidly divided by both ideology and party can sustain public confidence for much longer. The court has recently entered a new era of partisan division. If you look at close cases — 5 to 4 or 5 to 3 — going back to the 1950s to illustrate this division, you will see that the percentage of votes cast in the liberal direction by justices who were appointed by Democratic presidents has skyrocketed. And the same trajectory applies on the other side: The percentage of votes cast in the conservative direction by justices who were appointed by Republican presidents has also shot up. The trend is extreme — and alarming. In the 1950s and 1960s, the ideological biases of Republican appointees and Democratic appointees were relatively modest. The gap between them has steadily grown, but even as late as the early 1990s, it was possible for justices to vote in ideologically unpredictable ways. In the closely divided cases in the 1991 term, for example, the single Democratic appointee on the court, Byron White, voted more conservatively than all but two of the Republican appointees, Antonin Scalia and William Rehnquist. This was a time when many Republican appointees — like Sandra Day O’Connor, Harry Blackmun, John Paul Stevens and David Souter — frequently cast liberal votes. In the past 10 years, however, justices have hardly ever voted against the ideology of the president who appointed them. Only Justice Kennedy, named to the court by Ronald Reagan, did so with any regularity. That is why with his replacement on the court an ideologically committed Republican justice, it will become impossible to regard the court as anything but a partisan institution. It is hard to think of any historical precursors. The most famous period of ideological division on the court was in the 1930s, when it repeatedly struck down liberal legislation. But what is remarkable is that the division was not strongly partisan. Among the “four horsemen” — the die-hard opponents of the New Deal — one was appointed by a Democratic president, and another was a Democrat appointed by a Republican president. Among the three justices who typically voted to uphold New Deal programs, two were appointed by Republican presidents. The modern divisions on the court can be traced to the Warren court of the 1950s and 1960s. The Warren court was not partisan — two of its liberal stalwarts, William Brennan and Earl Warren himself — were appointed by Dwight Eisenhower, a Republican. But the Warren court took a liberal stand on the most controversial issues of the day — including civil rights, sexual freedom, and the rights of criminal suspects and political dissenters. The post-Warren court case of Roe v. Wade finally galvanized the right. Since then, Republican presidential candidates have repeatedly promised to appoint conservative jurists to the court. But they have not always kept the promise. Republicans still can’t forgive President Reagan for appointing two moderates, Justices O’Connor and Kennedy, and President George H. W. Bush for appointing Justice Souter, who veered left. Both the pressure on the presidents by conservative groups and the ideological vetting procedure for nominees were ramped up. President George W. Bush’s appointments — John Roberts and Samuel Alito — were impeccably conservative. Presidents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama appointed liberals in an effort to halt the court’s rightward drift. For the first time in living memory, the court will be seen by the public as a party-dominated institution, one whose votes on controversial issues are essentially determined by the party affiliation of recent presidents. That’s if one party wins the Senate as well as the presidency. It seems likely that the next time the presidency and the Senate are divided by party, any appointment will be blocked. Indeed, that’s what happened in 2016, when the Republican Senate refused to consider President Obama’s nominee Merrick Garland. Frustrated with the Supreme Court’s opposition to the New Deal, President Franklin Roosevelt tried to pack the court — that is, add more justices. Although the plan died in Congress, the court also backed down from its confrontation with the president. Both Roosevelt and the court were badly damaged by the clash. Today we see similar attacks on the judiciary in Hungary, Poland and other illiberal democracies. Assaults on judicial independence are made easier when the public comes to view the judiciary as a political body. This risk, and not just the identity of the next justice, should be at the center of public attention. This Op-Ed has been updated to reflect news developments.