This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. “The potential center-left majority in this country — and it’s very real — has to actually organize and elect people to office,” the political scientist Theda Skocpol told me while I was reporting my column this week. I think that’s the most important message for any progressives feeling despondent about President Trump’s second Supreme Court nomination, which is set to be announced tonight: Elections matter. Miserably low turnout in the 2014 midterms helped Republicans take the Senate, which in turn allowed them to steal a Supreme Court seat from Barack Obama. And mediocre turnout in 2016 helped Donald Trump to win the presidency, which has allowed him to nominate two justices. My column focuses on how Democrats should respond now, and my main advice is to focus on this year’s elections. As always, I welcome feedback by email (leonhardt@nytimes.com), Twitter or Facebook. Related: “To me, Democrats don’t have a lot of good options,” Vox’s Ezra Klein said on a recent podcast, referring to the coming confirmation battle. “But they have a lesson here: Midterms matter, even when you don’t think they do. Midterms matter.” That podcast episode features a good discussion between Klein and Slate’s Dahlia Lithwick about how politicized the court has become. And the best overview of the 2017-18 Supreme Court term that I’ve heard (or read) is a Fresh Air episode, with Terry Gross interviewing Adam Liptak of The Times. Department of disagreement. Brian Fallon, the Democratic strategist, wrote me a thoughtful note yesterday disagreeing with my column after it appeared online. He thinks I’m too negative about the Democrats’ prospects of blocking Trump’s nominee. “The odds may not favor those of us seeking to defeat Trump’s pick but I think you underestimate the chances we could pull off an upset,” he wrote. The nominee may provide the fifth vote to take health insurance from millions of people and to overturn Roe v. Wade, both of which would be unpopular. Progressive activists can highlight those stances and build pressure on senators to oppose the nomination, Fallon says. If Democrats remain unified, and Senator John McCain is too ill to return to Washington for a vote, only a single Republican senator would need to flip to defeat the nomination. “If we don’t contest” the nomination, Fallon continued, “at this inflection-point moment, we will never build muscle memory to organize around the courts.” I still think the chances of victory are slim. But I agree with Fallon that Democrats should not simply fold on the confirmation. And so long as the party fights in a way that helps it in the midterms — rather than focusing only on its base and thereby alienating swing voters — there is little downside to waging that fight.