This was part of Offsides, a newsletter on the broader issues and hidden stories around the World Cup. These are thrilling times, aren’t they? There are just four teams left and it feels as if anything could happen. On Tuesday, France, my pretournament pick for winner, will face a surging Belgium. On Wednesday, England (I wrote about my complicated relationship with the country last week) plays Croatia. But it’s Croatia’s most recent opponent that’s on my mind right now: Russia. No one really believed Russia — the second-worst-ranked team at the start of the tournament — would make it to the quarterfinals. But the Russian players put up a heroic effort, with an especially impressive defense, which carried them through until Croatia beat them on penalty kicks last week.  Off the field, though, you could say that Russia has already won. It’s not just that the country got to host the tournament under somewhat dubious conditions, as Ken Bensinger wrote last month. It’s that the seeming success of the games is proving to be a huge public relations victory for Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin. “Many stereotypes about Russia have been broken down,” Putin said in a recent televised meeting at the Kremlin with Gianni Infantino, the head of FIFA. “People have seen that Russia is a hospitable country.”  I’m curious which “stereotypes” Putin was referring to. Maybe visitors have found the locals more welcoming than they anticipated. But Russia’s government — accused of killing journalists and infamous for imprisoning political opponents — seems to be meeting expectations. Anyone who could cause it any headaches is being brutally silenced. (For more on this, you should read Alexey Kovalev’s recent Op-Ed essay: “The World Cup Is Fun. Except for the Russians Being Tortured.”) I wanted to get a better sense of what this World Cup has meant for Russians in Moscow, St. Petersburg, Yekaterinburg and the other cities, so I asked people living there. They told me about their pride in their team’s performance, joy in the general atmosphere around the event, and excitement at the chance to communicate with a diverse crowd of visitors. But they also shared a discontent with the state of affairs in Russia. (For their own security, most asked me to use only their first initials.)  R., a woman in her mid-20s who works in the arts, told me that the World Cup has been used as a cover for raising the retirement age and increasing taxes. “We as citizens cannot do anything,” she said. “Protests are forbidden.” Another woman, L., who is 25, told me she was frustrated that the cosmetic improvements have been made to her city to impress visitors, while more important issues, like infrastructure, are being left unaddressed.   Andrey Baranchuk, a 54-year-old executive, told me in a message, “Behind the external bright facade of the World Cup lies a cruel and ruthless regime of political repression.” We need to listen to these Russians. I’m afraid that the tourists, athletes and journalists who are in Russia for the World Cup will come away thinking all is well and good just because they had a great time watching some matches. That would be to forget how authoritarianism so often works: Everything seems well and good — until you challenge the status quo. Friends returning from Russia have told me about the warm welcome they received from Russians who are proud of their country. They should have expected nothing less, said M., a 33-year-old photographer. “We just want to live our normal lives, in spite of Putin and his gang, and hope someday things will change,” he said.  For the last few days of this tournament, M. and his friends will, like the rest of us, enjoy the games, even with their home team having been eliminated. But when the stars pack up their cleats and the announcers leave Moscow behind, M. will push on, trying to fight for a better country.  You can sign up for the Offsides newsletter here.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter.