The courts were never going to save our constitutional democracy, but that doesn’t mean they are unimportant. The president’s nomination of Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh for the Supreme Court provides an occasion to reflect on the power of the federal courts and to consider what the newly refashioned Supreme Court will and will not do. If Judge Kavanaugh is confirmed and his work on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit is any indication, the new Supreme Court will rarely act as a shield for groups — such as undocumented women — who are victimized by the political process. And when they do manage to eke out a political victory, the court may serve as a sword against them. Some people point to the Supreme Court’s relatively conservative history to reassure us that things will not be so bad. That will be largely true for the socioeconomically well-off, mostly white elite Supreme Court watchers who are largely insulated from many of society’s harshest tendencies. But court decisions can have real consequences in people’s lives. Consider Judge Kavanaugh’s views in a recent case related to abortion, Garza v. Hargan. An undocumented minor, referred to by the court as Jane Doe, or J. D., was in the custody of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, which blocked her efforts to obtain an abortion. Rochelle Garza, her court-appointed guardian, sued Eric Hargan, the acting secretary of health and human services, on behalf of J. D. and other women in her position. Judge Kavanaugh weighed in on the case when an appeal reached the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. At a moment of great urgency — abortion restrictions in Texas leave a narrow window for the procedure — Judge Kavanaugh and two other judges would have permitted the Office of Refugee Resettlement to force the woman to delay her abortion even further. That delay would have exacted a significant cost, not just to the woman’s bodily autonomy but also to her access to the procedure, since delaying it further limited the providers who would have performed it. Judge Kavanaugh’s reasoning provides a perfect example of how judges can whittle down the right to decide to end a pregnancy so that it is practically unavailable to women even without outright overruling Roe v. Wade. Upholding needless restrictions on abortion can make safe and legal abortion unavailable to women, too. (Ultimately, other judges on the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the resettlement office could not prevent or further delay J. D.’s obtaining an abortion.) In Garza, one conservative judge went further than Judge Kavanaugh and wrote that contrary to the text of the due process clause, noncitizens entering the United States have no due process rights at all. The Trump administration has argued that they possess, at most, only very limited ones, and it has used that argument to defend its forcible separation of families at the border, among other things. Judge Kavanaugh did not join the judge’s opinion embracing that argument, but neither did he reject it. He also did not reject the administration’s reasoning: He merely wished it away by pretending the administration had not made the argument at all and said that the government had “assumed, presumably based on its reading of Supreme Court precedent,” that undocumented women do enjoy the constitutional protections of the due process clause. That reasoning does not reveal what Judge Kavanaugh might do with the Supreme Court precedent once he is on the court and in a position to change it. But it is not just about the debates raging in the court this year. For the next several decades, the federal courts could be available to strike down policies that progressives obtain in the halls of Congress, the presidency or the states. Imagine a future Democratic Congress wants to offer remedies for victims of police violence that disproportionately affects minorities. Conservative justices have questioned the constitutionality of laws that prohibit policies where the burden falls on some races more than others. Just a few years ago, Justice Anthony Kennedy broke with his more conservative colleagues to allow lawsuits under the Fair Housing Act to proceed where a policy disproportionately affected one race more than others, even if unintentionally. Under Justice Kavanaugh, that would probably not happen; his supporters are already trumpeting the fact that Judge Kavanaugh will probably invalidate race-conscious remedies. Or consider a Democratic Congress that wants to limit a future president’s ability to detain or separate families for immigration proceedings. What is to stop a conservative majority of the court from invalidating the law as an unconstitutional limitation on the president’s powers under Article II of the Constitution? Judge Kavanaugh has written extensively about the force of Article II and how it limits the extent to which Congress can restrain the presidency. As a judge, he wrote a dissent (later adopted by a 5-4 majority of the Supreme Court) that gave the president more power over the regulatory body that oversees the financial services industry. He wrote a similar dissent about another agency this year. Congress had attempted to make those bodies independent of the president; Judge Kavanaugh said they could not do so. These possibilities are not necessarily hypothetical. The Trump administration is already attempting to use the federal courts as a bludgeon to invalidate popular progressive laws that could not be repealed through the normal legislative process. In a recent lawsuit, Mr. Trump’s Department of Justice is arguing that the federal courts should invalidate the Affordable Care Act provisions that prevent insurance companies from charging higher prices to people with pre-existing conditions and from refusing to issue policies to people willing to pay for them. Progressives have very limited options at their disposal. One option would be to use state courts and state constitutional law to protect rights that the federal courts will not. For example, the Iowa Supreme Court recently held that the Iowa Constitution protects women’s ability to decide to end a pregnancy, and the United States Supreme Court generally does not review state court decisions on matters of state law. But that solution has its limits, because rights would vary by region and because the election or appointment of progressive state justices may seem out of reach in some areas. The Supreme Court can defang progressive state laws with regressive federal ones. Take the court’s recent decision in National Institute of Family and Life Advocates v. Becerra, which invalidated a pair of California regulations designed to warn women that unlicensed crisis pregnancy centers were unlicensed, among other things. The court held that the state laws violated the First Amendment. President Trump was always going to nominate conservative judges, and his selection of the well-credentialed and very smart Judge Kavanaugh is no exception. But there is no point to pretending that Judge Kavanaugh is something he is not, and no use in feigning uncertainty about the substance of Judge Kavanaugh’s views on certain legal issues. Democrats may think the courts were meant for better things, but they are in the minority. While they are there, they might ask themselves whether the federal courts are worth fighting for or against, and if so, how. And they might even learn a thing or two from the people who decided that they are, and by any means necessary — Mitch McConnell and the Republican Party.