One scorching May afternoon in 2015, as nearly a hundred men and women employed by an Indian government project dug across villages in search of the mythical river Saraswati, a trickle of water appeared, bubbling out of a paddy field.  For days, national newscasters reported on the miracle of finding a river we’d only read about in the Vedas — ancient religious texts — drumming up Hindu nationalism across the country. Pilgrims and tourists thronged from far and wide. “This is groundwater. Dug out at a mere depth of seven feet. Can you see that this is not a flowing river?,” questioned a farmer, Jarnail Singh, one of the few reasoning voices. Among the believers was Manohar Lal Khattar, the chief minister of Haryana State, who rushed in to worship the river and her namesake goddess. He had announced a grant of 500 million rupees ($7 million) to revive and regenerate the river, which is believed to have disappeared more than 5,000 years ago. The Haryana Sarasvati Heritage Development Board, which Mr. Khattar heads, wants to change the name of the Indus Valley civilization to the Sarasvati river civilization. With the discovery of river Saraswati, the Hindu right wing in India is jubilant because it aligns with its nationalist claims that Hindus are indigenous inhabitants of India and that Hindu civilization is the oldest in the world. The argument is simple: The Vedas were written 10,000 years ago, and they mention the river Saraswati, proving that an advanced civilization existed then. Disregarding a majority of historians, who date the Vedas between 3,500 and 3,000 years old, the Hindu right wing claims that the discovery of Saraswati proves India is the oldest civilization in the world. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and its ideological parent, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (National Volunteer Organization), have long complained that Indian history has been written from the Western perspective and must be rewritten to rightfully represent India’s Hindu past. Hindu nationalists and India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi, argue for the superiority of India by citing examples from ancient times. Addressing a group of doctors in Mumbai in 2014, Mr. Modi asserted that reproductive genetics and plastic surgery were developed and practiced in ancient Hindu India. Hearing this, his cabinet ministers jumped in to mention other ways in which ancient texts predicted or invalidated modern ideas. Home Minister Rajnath Singh stated that Werner Heisenberg’s uncertainty principle in quantum mechanics was based on ideas from the Vedas. The minister of state for human resource development, Satyapal Singh, proclaimed that since none of our ancient texts mention apes turning into men, Darwin’s theory of evolution is wrong, and he cautioned against its being taught in schools. The minister of science and technology, Harsh Vardhan, proposed that the Vedas might have a theory superior to Einstein’s theory of special relativity.  Why would those in positions of power locate all the knowledge, wisdom and technological advancement of the modern world in ancient scriptures? It is a perverse subversion of the human enterprise of scientific pursuit. Accumulated over the past 500 years, learning based on experiments and empirical evidence has freed us from the fetters of absolute truth offered by religious texts, whether the Bible, the Quran or the Vedas. Attributing all human progress to religious texts written thousands of years ago is a reversal of the building blocks of the modern world.  This short documentary is produced in collaboration with the Sundance Institute Short Documentary Fund supported by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. Shirley Abraham and Amit Madheshiya are Cannes-prize-winning Indian filmmakers. Their first feature documentary, “The Cinema Travellers,” has won 19 international and national awards.  Op-Docs is a forum for short, opinionated documentaries, produced with creative latitude by independent filmmakers and artists. Learn more about Op-Docs and how to submit to the series. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Op-Docs newsletter.