My love of football has always placed me in a difficult position. On one hand, there’s an environment of conflict, oppression and political injustice around the sport. On the other, there are football’s simple, scintillating pleasures. This tension — between the ugliness of the game’s culture and its aesthetic beauty — has always been acute for L.G.B.T. fans, even more so for activists from our community. And at this World Cup, where President Vladimir Putin has presided over a hugely successful global spectacle while jailing and torturing dissidents (notably the Ukrainian filmmaker Oleg Sentsov), the contradiction between the joy of football and the misery of its culture and politics has been especially sharp.  But contradictions can be combated. And in the eight years since FIFA awarded the World Cup to Mr. Putin’s Russia, L.G.B.T. activists have made great strides in their efforts to make the sport more accessible, more welcoming, more truly beautiful.  My own fight against homophobia, biphobia and transphobia in football goes back a long way. I joined my local club, Horley Town, when I was 11. I soon found I couldn’t bond with my teammates, an experience replicated when I played, once, for my school. I didn’t play competitively again until I joined the Brighton Bandits, a team on the English South Coast who were part of the world’s only national L.G.B.T. football league, the Gay Football Supporters’ Network League. At the time, some friends asked why such segregation was necessary. I told them the truth, which was that L.G.B.T. people were unlikely to socialize in the same places as straight teammates and would feel nervous about disclosing same-sex relationships. They had good reason to: Managers such as the English legend Brian Clough and the former Croatian boss Otto Baric publicly denounced gay players. Homophobic chants remain the norm.  After my first Bandits match in 2008, I talked to a teammate about Justin Fashanu, who in 1990 became the first (and at the time only) professional player to come out as gay. As the 10th anniversary of Fashanu’s death approached, nobody was discussing it. In part this was because his life was so complicated, and his death — he committed suicide after being accused of sexual assault — so traumatic. But it felt like an impediment to a wider conversation about the gulf between L.G.B.T. fans and professional football.  It was not Fashanu’s only problem, but he suffered from prejudice before and after coming out, so we adopted his name for The Justin Campaign against homophobia in football. Later, the campaign rebranded as Football v. Homophobia and became an important agent in anti-discrimination initiatives, running workshops for clubs and organizations across Europe about how to create an environment where a professional player might feel able to come out and where fans might be able to challenge the perception that L.G.B.T. people weren’t harmed by homophobic behavior. Though I had left the campaign to begin my gender transition — I had a lot to sort out — its work was vital in spreading the tenets and techniques of inclusion.  But there’s so far to go. Issues like how to include trans players in men’s or women’s divisions have been left to national associations, even though, as the International Olympic Committee urges, they should be allowed to compete without restriction. And despite FIFA’s heartening willingness to engage with activist groups, most of its initiatives have focused on “diversity” rather than concrete actions on L.G.B.T. inclusion. And then there’s the World Cup. Awarded to Russia — a country ranked second bottom of European countries for L.G.B.T. rights in 2016 — the tournament has been full of contradiction and frustration. FIFA supported Diversity House in Russia, a place for discussions, meetings and, most important, ardent game-watching, but was slow to act on Mexico fans’ homophobic chants during their country’s 1-0 win over Germany. The organization has, however, allowed fans to take rainbow flags into the stadiums. One supporter to do so, Di Cunningham, experienced a few frosty exchanges with Russian and English fans (including an England supporter who told her to “keep politics out of football”), but plenty of support and exposure, too. Cunningham hopes her example will prompt L.G.B.T. fans from other countries to ask, “Why can’t we do this?” When I stepped, tentatively, back onto the football field a decade ago, nobody paid much attention to the systematic marginalization of L.G.B.T. fans and players. Our concerns were very far from the mainstream. Now the game’s governing bodies interact with L.G.B.T. activists, and top-level clubs have established links with “gay-friendly” amateur teams and L.G.B.T. supporters’ groups.  This progress proves an activists’ axiom: Changes in public opinion are almost always led by the grass roots, with institutions slowly (and often grudgingly) catching up. At least at Norwich City — the team I follow devotedly, based in the east of England — the supporters and the club have reached the same place. A month before the World Cup began, I played in a tournament for L.G.B.T. teams, hosted by Norwich City, with Justin Fashanu’s niece Amal as the guest of honor. I realized my childhood dream of scoring at Carrow Road, Norwich’s home ground, where I have spent countless Saturdays. After it finished, I was presented with a pink World Cup trophy last seen at a small Justin Campaign event back in 2010.  It felt like the perfect reward for persevering with a sport, or more accurately a sporting culture, which had told me so many times that I wasn’t welcome. Juliet Jacques is the author of “Trans: A Memoir.” Her journalism has appeared in The Guardian, The Washington Post and numerous other publications. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.