Divided administrations produce incoherent diplomacy. That’s why President Trump’s meeting next Monday in Helsinki, Finland, with Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, is unlikely to go well. In their preparations for the summit, Mr. Trump and his advisers appeared to recognize the need for greater discipline and focus. These could, if sustained, be the ingredients of a more promising phase in Russian-American relations. But to reach that goal, Mr. Trump has to accept something he will find extremely distasteful — a diminished role for himself. Few new presidents have been so completely at odds with their top advisers on a major foreign policy problem as Mr. Trump has always been on Russia. He is guided by a longstanding desire to “get along” with Mr. Putin; the senior members of his team start with deep suspicion and hostility. A paralyzing confusion has been the result. That may be changing — and on some of the most sensitive issues dividing Moscow and Washington. When Secretary of State Mike Pompeo assured Congress last month that Mr. Trump would take a firm stand in Helsinki on election meddling, the president’s immediate response (on Twitter) was to remind us that according to the Russians, meddling never happened. Then, as though someone had advised him this was the wrong answer, he changed course. “We don’t want anybody tampering with elections,” he told an interviewer. The president also let others tidy up his foolish remarks on Ukraine. After he said he might consider recognizing Russia’s seizure of Crimea in 2014, his national security adviser, John Bolton, called that view “not the position of the United States.” All the president meant, Mr. Bolton insisted, was that he would hear Mr. Putin out. Soon Mr. Trump shrugged off his earlier statement. “I’ll talk to him about everything,” he explained. All this looks like the same division of labor the president and his principal advisers used at the Singapore summit with Kim Jong-un. It’s a formula in which Mr. Trump manages the spectacle — the feel-good, ego-boosting, backslapping engagement — while Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Bolton manage the policy. They let the president glory in the main event as they try to control both the run-up and the substantive aftermath. The Singapore model, it has to be said, did not keep Mr. Trump from mismanaging his meeting with Mr. Kim. Could it, even so, enable the administration to refashion Russian-American relations? Maybe, but only if three conditions are met. The first is that the division of labor has to be better enforced. Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Bolton won’t stop Mr. Trump from claiming that he and Mr. Putin have a “fantastic relationship” or (against all the evidence) that the Russian president has a “great personality.” But if they don’t block the bromance, they do have to keep it from bleeding into policy. Mr. Trump’s advisers know (because their boss has said so publicly) that he may turn to Mr. Putin over lunch and say bold, spontaneous things like, “Would you do me a favor? Would you get out of Syria?” It won’t take much of that (or of the “favors” Mr. Putin will want in return) for the Singapore model to collapse. The president and his team may hope to make their division of labor work by sticking to issues on which they agree. Take Iran, on which they’re focusing. Everyone in the administration wants Russia to keep Iranian forces in Syria from getting into a war with Israel. They also want Russia to increase oil production so as to limit Iran’s export earnings. These subjects, already discussed at lower levels, pose little risk that lunch in Helsinki will spiral out of control. Nuclear policy may offer a similar opportunity. Both Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin have spoken lately about managing “the arms race.” They can safely instruct their advisers to keep discussing it after the summit. The second requirement for the success of the Singapore model is to get Mr. Putin to take it seriously. He has to see Helsinki as, at most, the initial step in a new relationship — one that can develop beyond high-level joviality only if Moscow changes course. Unfortunately, Mr. Trump, having said so often how much he wants to “get along,” gives Mr. Putin few incentives to rethink. Despite frequently poor results (Ukraine is the outstanding case), Russian policy has not shifted on any major issue. And why should it? An American president who touts his own unanchored, unpredictable views lets Russian policymakers hope they can have what they want for nothing. Mr. Trump’s advisers are probably too embarrassed to tell him how many people in Moscow describe him as an easy mark for manipulation. They can’t stop snarky Russians from saying the president of the United States can be duped. But if, at Helsinki and after, Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Bolton show Mr. Putin that they can’t be duped and that their boss does what they say, they will have taken a long step toward a more productive Russian-American relationship. Finally, if Mr. Trump and his advisers want to “get along” with Moscow in a way that serves American interests, they have to prove they can deliver. From Mr. Putin on down, Russian officials keep asking why Mr. Trump has been so powerless to implement his own preferred policy. It’s a fair question, one the president must ask himself. The answer is not some “deep state” conspiracy against him. It’s that neither the White House nor the Kremlin understands the American policy process. Almost no one — not even the president — takes American foreign policy in a new direction all alone. Mr. Trump has been no exception. Last summer, a near-unanimous Congress sharply curtailed his ability to offer Moscow relief from sanctions on his own. The Pentagon, the C.I.A. and the Treasury remain powerful dissenting voices on other issues involving Russia. Even our NATO allies have a say. Mr. Putin probably hoped that before going to Helsinki, Mr. Trump would disrupt the NATO summit in Brussels as thoroughly as he did the Group of 7 summit in Canada. The president, from his wild opening rant about German purchase of Russian gas, certainly obliged him. But the result may not be what Mr. Putin expects. Chaos in the Western alliance has already sent shock waves through all the institutions that shape American policy. These shocks incite resistance. They may make it harder for Mr. Trump to impose his will. All these prerequisites for transforming Russian-American relations converge on a single point that must frustrate both Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin. The American president cannot decide everything by himself. If Mr. Trump wants to succeed, he needs to defer more to those — from tough-minded advisers, to congressional antagonists, to angry allies — who disagree with him. If he tries to control the process without answering their concerns, he will continue to fail.