This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. I’ve been thinking this week about the subtle similarities between the debates over Brexit and Obamacare. And then yesterday President Trump went and made those similarities blazingly obvious. He did so while breaching every known custom of diplomacy (and basic manners) by criticizing Theresa May, the British prime minister, while he was in Britain. Specifically, he suggested she could have gotten a better deal when negotiating her country’s planned exit from the European Union if she had taken a harder line. “I would have done it much differently,” Mr. Trump said, according to the tabloid The Sun. “I actually told Theresa May how to do it, but she didn’t listen to me.” Ah, yes — the magical great deal on Brexit. The truth is, there is no great deal to be had. During the 2016 lead-up to a referendum on the issue, the pro-Brexit crowd sold a fantasy to the British people: that their country could somehow keep the benefits of European trade (easily selling products in other countries, for example) while getting rid of the downsides (like agreeing to continentwide rules). Along the way, these Brexiteers also exaggerated those downsides and sometimes flat-out lied about them. My colleague Paul Krugman and The New Yorker’s John Cassidy both wrote nice explanations, with much more detail, this week. By now, you’ve probably figured out the similarities to the Obamacare debate. After the law went into effect in 2010, Republicans spent years lying about health care. They pretended they could pass a magical law that somehow made medical care better and cheaper than it already was, without ever explaining how it would work. Those falsehoods worked pretty well politically. They helped Republicans retake control of Congress and then helped Trump win the White House. But when it came time to pass a health care bill, the party didn’t have a serious plan. All of its bills would have made medical care worse and more expensive, according to every independent analysis. In the end, Republicans couldn’t pass a bill. Yesterday, Trump brought his version of magical thinking to Britain and used it to insult his host. Related. “Essentially, the Trump administration views Britain as an easy economic mark, not a strategic partner,” writes the Brookings Institution’s Thomas Wright in Politico Magazine. “Trump’s interview is a bombshell that fully confirms the predatory policy analysis,” Wright later tweeted. Besides humiliating and patronizing May, notes The Guardian’s Pippa Crerar, Trump’s remarks throw a “hand grenade under her new Brexit plans.” And by championing a maximalist fantasy version of Brexit and emboldening her domestic political rivals, “Trump has essentially backed May into a corner,” writes Vanity Fair’s Isobel Thompson. A more responsible American administration would try to iron out the tensions between Britain and the E.U. — even just to protect its own strategic interests. But “rather than soothe difficulties between the U.K. and EU, the Trump administration has inflamed them,” writes The Atlantic’s David Frum. In The Times, Lara Prendergast, William Davies, and Michael Kenny and Nick Pearce offer their thoughts on Britain and Trump.