I am wistful for the days I spent reading as a child: passionate and obsessed, devouring books as fast as I could get my hands on them.  Maybe I read so much as a child because I had so much free time, and so much to learn. As I’ve grown older I’ve become less enchanted with the imaginary worlds of fiction, and more starved for the time and energy to devote to a book. More often I find myself pulling out a device to catch up on the real world, in what seems to be ever-shrinking snippets — articles, status updates, tweets.  But I’ve got a kid-free vacation coming up, and I have proper reading on my to-do list, among other elusive activities. With that in mind, I’ll be checking out the summer reading recommendations from my colleagues in the Book Review — and highlighting some of the pieces from the Opinion section on how we read, and whether it changes us. Charles M. Blow on the reading he did as a child: “It is no exaggeration to say that those books saved me: from a life of poverty, stress, depression and isolation.” From the writer Jhumpa Lahiri: “We encounter books at different times in life, often appreciating them, apprehending them, in different ways. But their language is constant. The best sentences orient us, like stars in the sky, like landmarks on a trail.” Sometimes books can’t get through to us until we are a certain age, writes Jennifer Finney Boylan. “It is one thing to read ‘The Old Man and the Sea,’ for instance, when you are 15 and the world lies ahead of you in all its endless possibility. It is another to read it in middle age, when a few big dreams may have died.” The writer Hisham Matar looks at how books can widen a narrow worldview: “The most magical moments in reading occur not when I encounter something unknown but when I happen upon myself, when I read a sentence that perfectly describes something I have known or felt all along. I am reminded then that I am really no different from anyone else.” “Americans’ trouble with reading predates digital technologies. The problem is not bad reading habits engendered by smartphones, but bad education habits engendered by a misunderstanding of how the mind reads,” writes the psychologist Daniel T. Willingham. Most of us have a positive view of the effects of literature, supported by nothing more than an airy bed of sentiment. Gregory Currie, a philosophy professor, asks: Is there any hard evidence that this is true? From Pamela Paul, the editor of the Book Review: “Sticking it out for 300 pages means immersing yourself in another person’s world and discovering how it feels. That’s part of what makes books you despise so hard to dismiss.” We’ve been curating some of the best reads from the Opinion section each weekend. Here are collections of favorites on love and relationships, the power of music, the joy of surfing and how we view money.