The press never tires of the “Democrats in disarray” story line, but that doesn’t mean it’s always wrong. Its latest manifestation concerns the pickle Senate Democrats are in with respect to the coming hearings for Brett Kavanaugh, President Trump’s nominee for the Supreme Court. They face, it is said, a terrible choice: On the one hand, they can put up token opposition knowing that Judge Kavanaugh is almost certain to be confirmed anyway, get the vote out of the way before the midterms and perhaps use the new associate justice as a whipping boy in campaign ads. On the other hand, some ask, should they pull out all the stops to delay a vote, gambling that such a move would end up being a wash with voters, and hoping that if they get lucky and take back the Senate, they can block Judge Kavanaugh’s ascension, as the Republicans did with Barack Obama’s nominee Merrick Garland? Both choices carry risks. If the Democrats pursue the former route and their base sees them as having capitulated, that might depress turnout in November. If they succeed at the latter, that might energize the Republican base. And if they fail to take back the Senate, Judge Kavanaugh will sail through after all, and the Democrats will look weaker still for having attempted a tactic that backfired. But maybe the problem isn’t which choice to make. It’s that the very framing of the Democrats’ choices in this way is bound to result in defeat and rancor. Democrats can transcend this Hobson’s choice, even in defeat, if they just fight the nomination the right way: making the nomination fight a referendum on Judge Kavanaugh’s past actions and on President Trump’s character. Polls usually show that on most issues, in the abstract, majorities support the Democratic position, from preserving Social Security to comprehensive immigration reform. That seems great for Democrats, but in fact it often lulls them into an uncreative passivity: They’re with us on the issues, Democrats think, so all we have to do is discuss the issues and we’re home free. Republicans look at those same polls and think: Hmm, the voters aren’t with us, so we must discredit these popular Democratic positions. They do this in two ways. First, by reminding voters that these ideas cost money. Second, and more cunningly, they attempt to turn the conversation away from issues and toward character.  This is one of the fundamental differences between the two parties. For Democrats, politics is a battle of ideas, punctuated by occasional detours down the character road. For Republicans, though, politics is an unending morality play, in which the probity of the dramatis personae is all-defining, punctuated by occasional battles of ideas. And while you may be thinking that Donald Trump upends this theory, in fact, our arbiters of right-wing morality (such as it is) are constantly excusing his louche behavior and trying to make him into a figure of rectitude. Now, back to the matter at hand. It will be the Democrats’ first instinct to attack Judge Kavanaugh on abortion rights and health care. And, indeed, polls are finding very strong support for maintaining Roe v. Wade and pretty strong support for Obamacare. Democrats should talk about those very important things. But they can’t leave it at that. They absolutely must discuss character — both the president’s and Judge Kavanaugh’s. The nominee worked for Ken Starr in 1998 as Mr. Starr pursued President Bill Clinton. What exactly did he do for Mr. Starr? That office was notorious for leaks. Did he leak secret grand jury proceedings, violating Rule 6(e) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure? He helped write the Starr report, which recommended impeachment of President Clinton for (among other things) lying to the public. Is that grounds for impeachment today? There will be many statements Mr. Kavanaugh made in the late 1990s that he will want to walk back, and the Democrats should make him walk every one of them back — over hot coals. Then there is the matter of Mr. Trump’s possibly naming one of his own future jurors. This is a grave constitutional issue. The Democrats’ job here is to get Judge Kavanaugh on the record such that if he does someday rule that Mr. Trump cannot be prosecuted, the public will be outraged. The Democrats will probably lose the Kavanaugh battle. But there are two ways to do it. They can lose by appearing to be timid, calculating, fretting too much about the consequences of being aggressive. Or they can lose by showing they understand that millions of Americans are counting on them to protect their rights and, the stakes being what they are, the Constitution itself. If Democrats do the latter, they will manage to have laid the groundwork for some optimism about November and 2020.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 