For all of the attention that offenses like D.U.I.s, road rage and texting-while-driving rightly receive, the biggest threat to traffic safety on New York City’s streets is the State Senate. The chamber is effectively ending a speed-limit-enforcement camera program by failing to renew the city’s mandate to run it. Started in 2013 under Mayor Michael Bloomberg, the program put cameras on the streets outside some city schools. Drivers traveling more than 10 miles per hour over the speed limit faced a $50 fine. Since then, speeding has declined by more than 60 percent near schools with cameras during school hours, leading to significant declines in crashes. The Republicans who control the Senate started rallying against renewing the camera program in the spring. They argued that speed cameras are a Big Brother intrusion into New Yorkers’ lives and are little more than a revenue-generating scheme disguised as a safety measure. These senators let the legislative session in Albany end without authorizing the city to extend and expand the speed-camera program. Only after a public outcry last month did a group of senators come up with a counterproposal. Instead of cameras, they said, the city should install more signs and signals at more than 1,000 city school zones. But school zones are already some of the most heavily signed and signaled places in the city. Crashes aren’t the result of too few signs and signals. They’re the result of drivers who ignore them by flouting the law. The city has made immense strides in recent decades in improving the street safety, installing designs that reduce the incidence and severity of crashes. Traffic deaths nose-dived from 701 in 1990 to just 214 last year — a decrease of about 70 percent. This wasn’t achieved by putting up signs and signals. Safer streets were the result of aggressively changing streets to discourage the dangerous behaviors that cause most crashes that harm vulnerable pedestrians. New Yorkers can see the evidence of this approach in the new pedestrian spaces, shortened crosswalks, improved walking and biking infrastructure and neighborhood slow zones all over the city. They can see it in increased education about traffic dangers and in the enforcement of traffic safety laws by the New York Police Department. The camera program is part of this strategy — and one of the most effective tools to be added to the city’s traffic-safety arsenal in the last decade. But the 140 cameras in the program are not enough for a city with more than 2,300 school zones, each surrounded by intersections and crosswalks. Cameras have proven to change behavior. From 2014 to 2016, the program resulted in $122 million in violations. But 80 percent of speed-camera violators do not get a second ticket. If any other traffic safety measure performed as well, we’d be working to expand it everywhere in the city, not quietly abolishing it. City residents polled support the camera programs by a large majority. It’s no wonder that Mayor Bill de Blasio and Transportation Commissioner Polly Trottenberg have an army of elected officials, advocates and ordinary New Yorkers behind them fighting to retain the cameras and expand their use before the city’s authority to operate them lapses on July 25. Assembly Democrats voted to renew the program and to more than double the number of cameras. Senate Republicans, long averse to almost any policy of Mr. de Blasio, are trying to deflect the public’s demand for speed cameras with cynical maneuvers like the proposal for more stop signs. Senator Simcha Felder, a Brooklyn Democrat who caucuses with Republicans, even demanded that the legislature mandate armed guards in schools before his committee would consider a speed-camera vote. The Senate’s proposal also gives the false impression that we can sign and signal our way to safety. City traffic engineers already have all the tools and authority they need to install signs and signals whenever and wherever they’re needed — and where the data back up their use. The Senate should immediately extend and expand the deployment of speed cameras on city streets. The Senate majority leader, John Flanagan, should reconvene the Senate for a vote before the program expires next week. School safety should not be an issue to play politics with.