A rare event occurred on Capitol Hill at the end of 2013: Republicans and Democrats agreed on a sensible, if modest, measure to continue regulating guns made from plastic. Now the Trump administration seems to be taking aim at even that. The Undetectable Firearms Act of 1988, first signed into law by Ronald Reagan and extended in 1998 by Bill Clinton, and again in 2003 by George W. Bush, was expiring. The law answered a fear that terrorists could smuggle weapons with lightweight polymer components through metal detectors by banning the manufacture, possession and transport of these weapons. In 1988, plastic guns were science fiction. In 2013, they were reality. Printing with 3-D technology allows someone to produce a fully functioning plastic firearm almost anywhere. All you need is an inexpensive printer purchased online or at the neighborhood office supply store and a downloadable file. The result: a lethal firearm that almost anyone can make and is difficult to identify with X-ray technology and metal detectors. An unlikely group in the House introduced the 2013 bill to renew the ban through 2023. Howard Coble, a conservative Republican from North Carolina, teamed up with me, a moderate Democrat from Long Island, and John Conyers, a liberal Democrat from Detroit. The bill was a compromise. The National Rifle Association approved of the reauthorization of the 1988 law, but stridently opposed any efforts to modernize and strengthen it. Meanwhile, Defense Distributed, a small nonprofit company in Austin, Tex., mobilized opposition. It posted online videos demonstrating the firepower and accuracy of 3-D guns and asserted what it said was its constitutional free-speech right to share computer codes to produce the guns. One week before the law was set to expire, our bill passed the House in a voice vote. It then passed the Senate and was signed into law by Barack Obama. The bill didn’t go far enough to address all of the potential threats of advanced printing technologies. Specifically, it should have mandated that a detectable metal component be permanently affixed to a firearm assembly. But it was an adequate starting point, and a singular, recent example of a bipartisan accord on reducing the chances of gun violence. Now even that common-sense agreement has been upended by the Trump administration. On June 29, the administration settled a lawsuit with Cody Wilson of Defense Distributed. He had sued the government after being forced by the State Department to take down online instruction manuals for a pistol that could be made by anyone with access to a 3-D printer because the instructions violated export laws. The settlement says that 3-D printing tutorials are approved “for public release (i.e. unlimited distribution) in any form.” The government also agreed to pay nearly $40,000 of Mr. Wilson’s legal fees — a particularly galling example of Mr. Trump’s obsequiousness to the most extreme fringe of the gun lobby. Defense Distributed says it will repost the blueprints for undetectable weapons on Aug. 1, when, in its words, “the age of the downloadable gun formally begins,” The downloadable files will reportedly include AR-15-style rifles, which were used in recent mass shootings in Las Vegas; Newtown, Conn., and Orlando and Parkland, Fla. It’s troubling enough to watch Congress do nothing in the face of endless gun violence. But this legal settlement pushes the boundaries beyond what two Republican presidents and even a Republican Congress were willing to tolerate only five years ago. Technically, the settlement doesn’t reverse the Undetectable Firearms Act. But it undermines it by making it easier for terrorists, criminals and minors to quietly produce deadly weapons with an inexpensive 3-D printer. Congress demonstrated an ability to act in 2013. It should do so again by modernizing the law so that it accounts for advances in technology and requires that printable weapons have components necessary for their operation that make them detectable. After all, the people who used quills to write the Second Amendment couldn’t comprehend that one day guns would be produced by 3-D printers.