I don’t know why I didn’t just turn the car around and go home. Perhaps I didn’t want to face failure again, unable to complete even the simplest of mom tasks — driving my son to his hockey game.  The morning had already been harder than it should have been: my joints achier, the car door heavier, the mid-December chill sharper in my lungs. I blasted the heater as we pulled out of the driveway and headed down the hill toward town. I swerved, barely missing a mailbox, trying to navigate through a six-inch square of frost-free glass. I pushed buttons, changed settings, convinced the heater wasn’t working properly. Why was it taking so long to clear the ice? I hurled a stream of invective so furious it was met with silence from my son in the back seat — until he replied in a tiny, quiet voice, “Mommy, you only turned on the heater, like, two seconds ago.” That was my first clue that something strange was happening in my brain. Those seconds had stretched into vast, immeasurable time. Now, my chest burned. I rounded a corner, shifted my gaze from the dashboard to the road, and my peripheral vision danced with neon snowflakes. The familiar, rural landscape suddenly appeared in hyper 3-D, as if I were looking through a child’s View-Master. I wondered if I’d taken my morning meds twice.  Whatever was happening, this high-gloss, Technicolor world was not something of my own design. I couldn’t focus on the road or my son’s voice chiming in from the back seat. My mind bucked every effort to corral it by backing itself into rooms deep in my consciousness. I had no idea what was happening, but I kept driving. Through a precarious combination of luck and foolishness, we made it to the rink safely, but as I sat in the lobby, heart racing, intensely dizzy and disoriented, I handed my phone to a stranger and asked him to call 911. That first spell lasted seven hours. The hospital treated me for a migraine and sent me home with a diagnosis of fatigue. After that, the spells came every day, sometimes more than once. If they happened while I was sleeping, I would wake up, chest burning, hearing dogs walking around the bed or a chorus of tropical birds. I watched the ceiling liquefy. Purple henna designs scrolled across my vision like a news crawl on TV. I stopped driving. I stopped leaving the house. We tried to identify the cause, but the spells refused to conform to a pattern. And nothing helped. For weeks, I toggled between these dissociative hallucinatory states and blinding, raging head pain. I spent three days in a neurological unit in Boston, hoping for answers. But the test results followed a familiar pattern: My brain was fine, but clearly I was not. In the end, my doctors gave me an enormous stress dose of steroids to break the migraine cycle. But the night the headache broke, I had the strongest spell of all.  My mind cleaved. I saw my thoughts pour out in a scrambled, encrypted wave that crested just beyond the back of my head. I was convinced that if I could decipher their code, I would unlock an artistic secret, a creative message. I’ve been thinking a lot lately about Hildegard von Bingen, the 12th-century composer, abbess, inventor and saint. Like me, she suffered from chronically poor health. The neurologist Oliver Sacks retroactively diagnosed her condition as intractable migraines. Hildegard also had elaborate visions; this would make sense if Dr. Sacks’s diagnosis was correct. Some migraines are accompanied by elaborate and detailed hallucinations. In a theological work, “Scivias,” she described an experience strikingly similar to my own: “When I was 42 years and 7 months old, Heaven was opened and a fiery light of exceeding brilliance came and permeated my whole brain, and inflamed my whole heart and my whole breast.” Hildegard is best known, though, for her music — a powerful body of mystical religious chants that are listened to more widely today than the music of any other single composer of her time.  I want to talk to her. Before I got sick, I was a productive theater composer. I was a mom and a wife, a multitasker and an overachiever. I wrung every bit of usable time from my days. Anything I accomplish now gets done through a haze of illness. There are fleeting moments when inspiration converges with a stretch of good days or when, through sheer force of will, I can make myself focus long enough to bring a song into the world. Those are rare days.  I wonder what Hildegard would tell me. Somehow, she turned her mystical visions into transcendent madrigals. What alchemy did she use to marry her debility to inspiration?  A couple of months before the incident with my son in the car, Social Security had declared me disabled, after a three-year battle with an autoimmune syndrome born from a toxic reaction to the silicone implant I had received during a mastectomy. Sometimes my symptoms are tolerable. Other times, I careen into crisis, the consequence of a hair-trigger immune system: the loss of more than a third of my body weight; the persistent infection that took seven rounds of antibiotics to clear; the bout of norovirus so severe my husband had to carry me into the emergency room. Every cough, every twinge of nausea can tip over into bad health from which I take months to recover. Like a masked marauder, my illness creeps into different bodily systems, wreaking havoc. I never know what’s next. I don’t have Hildegard’s faith, nor do I believe things happen for a reason. I certainly don’t attach any higher meaning to my illness. I know in my heart only that a confluence of then-unknown factors and bad luck has brought me to the barracks of ill health. But I can’t stop thinking about these strange spells. What mark will they have on my music? And do I have a responsibility to decipher them as a road map? Or a warning? I asked my husband this as I lay hallucinating in bed next to him. Gently, he demurred, saying he didn’t know.  A year into my illness, I started writing songs about my experience. Like live tweets of a tragedy, they are real-time snapshots of a life gone off the rails — a woman constantly redefined into smaller and smaller boxes. What I want this piece of theater to communicate has morphed radically since I lived through these months of altered consciousness. I just don’t know what it is yet. These days, the spells are less dramatic, but ever-present, like my own personal background radiation, punctuated by deafening tinnitus, pressure, pain and heat, like a fire behind the door of my eyes. My six doctors are uncertain of the cause, leaving me wondering if this is forever. Disability has forced me to master the art of changing expectations. I have to live in the constantly shifting landscape of my illness. Every plan, every dinner date, every trip comes with the proviso that I may not be up to the task. Sometimes all I can do is let go.  One thing, however, is definite: These spells have given me a renewed sense of purpose. I am acutely aware that I need to get as much music out of my pen while I am able. I know that the next medical crisis will come. When it does, I know it will set me back weeks, if not months. Illness is baked into me now. Perhaps this is what Hildegard knew: Say what you can, as well as you can, for as long as you can. Jenny Giering is a theater composer who has written music for Chicago Shakespeare Theater, Playwrights Horizons and others. She is working on a one-woman show about her experience with chronic illness. Disability is a series of essays, art and opinion by and about people living with disabilities. The entire series can be found here.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.