President Trump had a simple enough explanation for all those people outraged that when he appeared at a news conference on Monday with Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, Finland, he seemed to dismiss American intelligence about Russian election meddling. Not so, the president said the next day. The sentence in question, he said, was meant to be “sort of a double negative” — it’s just that he failed to put enough “nots” in it. That probably sent many listeners drifting back to their elementary-school English classrooms, where teachers told them to never use two negatives in the same sentence. The reasoning: a) It was something only uneducated people did, and b) the two negatives canceled each other out. The classic example was that when the Rolling Stones sang, “I can’t get no satisfaction,” they were “actually” saying they got plenty. Nobody really believed that. It was clear from the context what the Stones were saying. But the larger lesson was not lost. So many of us dutifully refrain from using double negatives like “I don’t never go there,” “I don’t like no politicians,” “I can’t hardly wait.” Their unacceptability is such that The New York Times stylebook doesn’t even have an entry on them — the assumption is that nobody would think to use such a nonstandard construction. This animus against double negatives, however, did not always exist. As my Pocket Fowler’s Modern English Usage notes, “They were once a feature of standard English, and are to be found in Chaucer, Shakespeare and other writers up to the 17th century.” The idea was that negatives in a sentence were self-reinforcing, not self-cancelling. But gradually that logic changed — “An arithmetical argument replaced a linguistic one,” Fowler’s says — and by the 18th century, grammar books denounced double negatives, and playwrights depicted lower-class characters as using them. What the president now says he should have said doesn’t really fall in the category of the usual frowned-upon double negative. What he claims he meant to say, “I don’t see any reason why it wouldn’t be” Russia behind the election hacking, isn’t ungrammatical. What he did say, “I don’t see any reason why it would be” Russia, was grammatical, too. It was also front-page news. Unfortunately for his assertions about his intent, Mr. Trump, unlike the Rolling Stones, is betrayed by context. Even as he tried to explain away his original comment and declare that he had accepted his intelligence agencies’ findings of Russian involvement, he couldn’t help adding: “Could be other people also. A lot of people out there.” And then, as The Times reports, he “appeared to say on Wednesday that Russia was no longer targeting the United States, contradicting his own intelligence chief.” The White House later said that wasn’t what he meant, but who can tell at this point? For all we know, the president may have just invented a new grammatical form: the triple negative.