When it emerged last week that John Schnatter, the founder of Papa John’s Pizza, had used a racial slur in a business meeting to quote what he said Colonel Sanders called blacks, much attention was paid to his use of the word but little to the point he was trying to make. Mr. Schnatter was criticized for his own criticism of African-American N.F.L. players who took a knee during the playing of the national anthem. That was unfair, he was saying, when one considered that KFC had suffered no fallout from its founder’s far more offensive remarks. (I have found no documentation that Sanders used such language.) Mr. Schnatter was making a what-about argument. Of course he was. Today, a political or ideological point, or a defense against public criticism, is at least as likely to be of this variety as any other. Here are two examples out of thousands in the public square: After President Trump met with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, “The Daily Show” tweeted a video clip from Sean Hannity’s Fox News show from the night before, side by side with some of Mr. Hannity’s sound bites from the past. First we heard the current Hannity praising Mr. Trump for talking with the Korean autocrat. “There’s no downside to what happened here at all,” Mr. Hannity said. “Only a win as far as I’m concerned.” Then we heard 2010 Hannity: “President Obama, catering to the world’s dictators, is literally the Neville Chamberlain of our time.” “It’s not wise, it’s not in our best interest,” his past self went on to say, this time in 2013. “We’re dealing with the world’s worst dictators, and we’re showing a lot of weakness.” As many commenters on the tweet noted, the juxtaposition seemed to show a huge double standard by Mr. Hannity. Two weeks before the Korea summit, Roseanne Barr sent out a racist tweet about the former Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett. The very next day, on her TBS comedy show, Samantha Bee used a vulgar word to refer to Ivanka Trump. ABC canceled Ms. Barr’s sitcom, “Roseanne.” TBS criticized Ms. Bee but took no action against her. Ari Fleischer, the former George W. Bush press secretary, said on Twitter: “Compare ABC’s reaction to Roseanne Barr’s tweet w TBS’s non-reaction to Samantha Bee and you’ll see a double-standard in action. There’s no uprising against Bee. Why? Because she is liberal. Because the MSM protects Obama and his aides, but not Trump. The hypocrisy is sickening.” This sort of argument has become so familiar that last month, The Oxford English Dictionary added a definition for “whataboutism.” It’s a nice one: “The practice of responding to an accusation or difficult question by making a counter-accusation or raising a different issue. Also in later use: the practice of raising a supposedly analogous issue in response to a perceived hypocrisy or inconsistency.” In part because of the sheer number of times it’s used, the ploy is routinely scorned and mocked. In an interview last year, the Russian activist and former chess champion Garry Kasparov commented on President Trump’s affection for the tack: “Moral relativism, ‘whataboutism,’ has always been a favorite weapon of illiberal regimes. For a U.S. president to employ it against his own country is tragic.” And in National Review, also last year, Ben Shapiro concluded: “It’s all dumb. And it’s making us all dumber.” But whataboutism isn’t inherently dumb or fallacious. To be sure, it has its rhetorical limitations, and it’s commonly abused, but when applied rigorously and conscientiously, it’s not a bad little argument. It certainly has staying power: The Romans used a variety and named it “tu quoque” (Latin for “you also”), defined by the website Fallacy Files as an attempt “to defend oneself or another from criticism by turning the critique back against the accuser.” Probably the most famous historical application of tu quoque was by apologists for the Soviet Union, who for decades habitually countered any American criticism of conditions there with, “And you are lynching Negroes.” The rejoinder is so notorious that it has its own lengthy Wikipedia entry. The term “whatabout” and its variants seem to have emerged during the Irish Troubles. The linguist Ben Zimmer unearthed a 1974 letter in The Irish Times referring to “the Whatabouts … who answer every condemnation of the Provisional I.R.A. with an argument to prove the greater immorality of the ‘enemy.’” The line hints at whatboutism’s most commonly commented-on flaw. As the Fallacy Files says, “whether the accuser is guilty of the same, or a similar, wrong is irrelevant to the truth of the original charge.” That sort of response is a deflection, and could and should be pounced on as such by a skilled debater. Hypothetical Trump opponent: “His treatment of women is abominable.” Hypothetical Trump supporter: “What about Bill Clinton?” Hypothetical Trump opponent: “I will happily consider that point, once you acknowledge Trump’s offenses.” Similarly, Colonel Sanders’s supposed use of racist language has zero to do with John Schnatter’s N.F.L. comments and the reaction to them. Another common problem is evident when the supposed offense that’s whatabouted pales before the initial charge. This is a cherished move of Mr. Trump’s, seen most recently in his post-Putin-summit news conference. In an exchange about Russian election meddling, The Times reported, he “changed the subject, demanding to know why the F.B.I. never examined the hacked computer servers of the Democratic National Committee,” and then offering the prototype of modern false equivalence: “Where are Hillary Clinton’s emails?” What-abouts also tend to have a kind of no-duh quality. Of course each side in our polarized polity trashes its opponents for actions that, if taken by its allies, would be excused, defended or rationalized. Of course each side takes credit for a robust stock market when it’s in the White House, and when the other side’s in power, says a president has nothing to do with stock prices. What else would you expect? Finally — and this is rarely recognized — a double-standard accusation usually leaves the accuser open to the same charge. Mr. Hannity’s liberal critics have (it would seem) accurately exposed his inconsistency. But for the charge to really stick they have three options, none of which whataboutists usually take the trouble to perform: condemn both Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump for meeting with dictators, praise both Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump, or show how the cases are in some significant way different so that Mr. Obama deserves praise while Mr. Trump does not. Same with Mr. Fleischer. I am waiting for him to assert that neither Ms. Barr nor Ms. Bee should have been punished, that they should have been punished equally, or (somehow) that Ms. Barr’s offense was less heinous and that a reversal of the status quo is appropriate. When he does, we can talk. Sometimes, such a case is explicitly or implicitly made, and then this tack begins to show some value. In an appearance on “Morning Joe,” Al Sharpton, using a variant I call thought-experiment whataboutism, suggested that the United States southern-border policy of separating illegal immigrants and their children reflected a double standard. “Imagine if this was Canadian children,” he said. “Would President Trump even think about grabbing Canadian children?” Clearly, Mr. Sharpton doesn’t think family separation is acceptable at either border. His critique of the Trump administration’s policy would appear to be solid. Same with when a qualitative difference between two supposed offenses is either implied in the charge or subsequently established. That’s what Judd Legum, the editor of Think Progress, did when tweeted a picture of Mr. Trump saluting the North Korean strongman and wrote: “REMINDER: The right-wing freaked out when Obama ‘bowed’ to a Japanese robot.” Well played. There’s also the sort of nonprejudicial whataboutism we value journalists and other watchdogs for practicing. When they’re doing their jobs well, they point out public figures’ discrepancies, flip-flops and hypocrisy, not to gain a partisan advantage but in the interest of informing the public. Tu quoque is a subset of the so-called ad hominem argument: a strike against the character, not the position, of one’s opponent. Ad hominem gets a bad press, but it isn’t without merit, when used in good faith. It’s useful in an argument to show that the stance being taken against you is inconsistent or hypocritical. It doesn’t win the day, but it chips away at your opponent’s moral standing and raises doubt about the entirety of his or her position. Of course, “good” whataboutism requires rigor and precision. In today’s cut-throat political discourse, that may be too much to hope for.