As if my semi-depressed teenhood wasn’t difficult enough, along came “The Wall” in November 1979 to usher in a new decade. Thanks a lot, Pink Floyd. Fast-forward nearly 40 years: “The Wall” has been adapted into an opera, making its American debut this week just miles from the birthplace of my teen existentialism. But this time I really am grateful for what that wall hath wrought. In ’79, however, a new decade was about to dawn, and I was trying to move on from “Dust in the Wind” and other such ’70s downers. Ahead was a fresh start for college, new horizons and whatnot. And forget that loser Bartleby and his existentialism from my junior-year English class. But then those Pink Floyd chaps had to serve up a double-album dose of war, dead fathers, loneliness, fascism, walls and mothers putting all of their fears into us. Should I bother going to college if we really don’t need no education? Suddenly, Pink Floyd’s brand of existentialism became a rallying cry for my untapped angst. “Mother, do you think they’ll drop the bomb” lodged in my teen craw after President Jimmy Carter reintroduced Selective Service the next year — just before I turned 18 — at the height of the Cold War. I could be drafted. We could go to war. And like the rock opera’s lead character, I had lost my father as a child. The album embodied my grief so succinctly. Fear muddied my bright young future. I really did just want to be comfortably numb. Turns out I wasn’t alone in my glomming onto “The Wall.” Some 23 million copies have been sold in the nearly 40 years since its debut. My LP — purchased from my meager pay as a polyester-clad Arthur Treacher’s Fish & Chips newbie — survived scratches and a bong spill over the next year, even deeper nicks in my college dorm room in the early ’80s, and then a lonely and extended three-decade exile on various shelves in various homes on three continents since CDs, iTunes and YouTube took over. Now, incredibly, my LP is cool again as vinyl resurfaces. The album has been adapted into a 1982 movie, a staged concert in 1990 near the site of the newly torn-down Berlin Wall, a full-album concert tour from 2010 to 2013 by the Pink Floyd alumnus Roger Waters, and now an opera, making its American debut this month near my hometown in Ohio. Once again, “The Wall” has wormed its way back into my consciousness. “Another Brick in the Wall,” conceived by Mr. Waters and the opera composer Julien Bilodeau, begins July 20 for five performances at the Cincinnati Opera in a particularly favorite haunted building from my childhood: the newly renovated Music Hall, an icon of the city’s reinvigorated historic Over-the-Rhine neighborhood. The concert hall was built in the 1870s over a paupers’ cemetery, and its legendary ghost sightings seem somehow fitting when talking about “The Wall.” You don’t get much more haunted than this album. What makes the opera so fascinating to me is that it’s not a blow-by-blow rendering of the album like Alan Parker’s reverent but hollow film. Most of the original music is there, but it’s been recast, minus David Gilmour’s guitar solos that seem to come as gut punches from on high. The opera weaves the same story: A rock star, increasingly detached from the outside world, recalls his miserable postwar childhood (Gee, tell me again, why did I relate to this album as a teenager?) and takes a brutal emotional journey to a sort of redemption. But much of Mr. Bilodeau’s music utilizes a 51-member chorus and replaces weeping guitars with more modern, atonal chords from a 64-piece orchestra. “Another Brick in the Wall,” which debuted at the Opéra de Montréal last year, capitalizes on all things operatic in “The Wall” — its almost mystical depiction of the emotional impact of war, isolation and a family legacy that would make the brood from the “Ring” cycle blush. It’s perfectly suited for opera. Video projections, concert-like lighting and nightmarish characters fill the stage. But it’s not cluttered like the film version. It finds its operatic heart. On vacation in Ohio a few weeks ago, I joined a backstage tour at the Music Hall, just a few feet above where more bones from the 19th-century potter’s field have been found as recently as 2016. History and future collide here. The video screens, lights and sets were coming together for “Another Brick in the Wall,” and I was struck by how “The Wall” is evolving as it finds its place in history. “Tommy,” The Who’s equivalent, is also a double album adapted into a campy movie in 1975 and a successful Broadway musical two decades later. “Tommy” and “The Wall” are both rock operas, but “The Wall” seemed destined to be a fully staged opera. Decades after it un-numbed my teen comfort, “The Wall” feels as emotionally devastating and relevant as ever. Fascism and walls certainly top today’s headlines. And my own walls have come and gone. I’ve also lost my mother, who probably didn’t mean to put all of her fears into me. But there you have it: Music mirrors our lives and pushes us toward the future without healing all of our wounds. As “Another Brick in the Wall” puts my shelved LP onto a stage where I first stood during an elementary school field trip, it’s clear that “The Wall” is still morphing and shifting. Its metaphor of bricks being layered onto a wall — and the glimmer of hope as they slowly crumble — will always be a continuum for me. So, maestro, if you please, tear down this wall.