The Republican National Convention will be held in Charlotte, N.C., in 2020. Proponents believe it will bring a long-lasting economic impact. In fact, political conventions have only short-term benefits for the host city.  But a recent study concludes that conventions do have a very particular long-term impact on exactly one person: the host city’s mayor. The 2020 Republican convention will have one potential winner who’s not Donald Trump; her name is Vi Lyles, the mayor of Charlotte.  The study, which used data from 104 cities with populations over 160,000 from 1992 to 2012, indicates mayors who hosted political conventions were more likely to seek advancement in their careers. If their city experienced population growth and a decrease in the crime rate, and successfully hosted a mega-event — particularly a presidential nominating convention because of its headline-grabbing potency — the mayors were spurred to greater accomplishments, with about 57 percent seeking re-election, 32 retiring and 11 percent seeking another office.  When host mayors try to advance their careers, the results have been mixed. Just about 45 percent of them who sought roles beyond the mayoral office won, and nearly 7 percent of mayors seeking re-election were defeated. President Lyndon Johnson once said being a mayor was more of a burden than the presidency; many mayors sought other jobs, including, in order of frequency, governor, congressional representative, an appointment to an executive branch office or a Senate seat.  Charlotte recently hosted a national convention — for the Democrats in 2012 — and, as the study suggests, the host mayor that year, Anthony Foxx, did reap the rewards, even if the city didn’t get a long-term economic benefit. In-party mayors, as someone like Mr. Foxx is called, have made up 58 percent of host mayors since 1992. Not long after President Barack Obama was nominated to four more years in Charlotte, Mr. Foxx packed his bags for Washington to become the secretary of the Department of Transportation.  When a host mayor moves on, they often leave their city a changed place. For instance, Mr. Foxx bequeathed Charlotte a $50 million federal grant in place for police officers and militarized equipment to accommodate the convention, including a $4 million command center at the city’s Police Department headquarters and military-grade weapons. These resources were and still are in use, often against Charlotte’s citizens. The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Department was even proud that this was the lasting impression from the D.N.C.  “Nothing that we purchased during the D.N.C. — other than horse food — will we not be able to use going forward,” Rodney Monroe, the Charlotte police chief, told The Charlotte Observer on June 12, 2013, about two weeks before the Senate confirmed Mr. Foxx as President Obama’s nominee for secretary of transportation.  The consequences of the 2020 Republican convention, though, may last for Mayor Lyles. She’s keenly aware of how a city that becomes less desirable after a major event can backfire. As it is, Charlotte’s violent crime rate rose in 2016, and there were more homicides in 2017. This year, the city was named one of the top 30 deadliest United States cities. If Charlotte turns into a heap of smoldering ash from violence and protests, Mayor Lyles will be done. If all ends up well, she probably won’t become a superstar, but she will be able to say that she helped bring Democratic and Republican presidential conventions to Charlotte.  In the meantime, Ms. Lyles is having it both ways with her constituents. As a Democrat who was elected mayor in 2017, had been a long-term City Council member and worked for the city — mostly in its budget office — for nearly 30 years, she wrote a pro-R.N.C. op-ed in The Charlotte Observer but later said she won’t give the welcome address. Even after the 6-5 vote approving the federal funding for the convention, she reiterated her conflicting stance. “Hosting the R.N.C. is not an endorsement of the administration,” she said. “It’s about what opportunities we can make of it after this very, very difficult time of deliberation.” As a former Charlottean who covered the Democratic convention in 2012, I’ve seen how a major political convention can embolden a city’s mayor to leave what he or she has built. It’s clear Ms. Lyles is trying to show how Charlotte is a world-class city for hosting two political conventions within 10 years while also separating herself from bringing President Trump to town. Increasing her chances of a better result for herself when a convention has come and gone may gamble away her current mayoral role.  “This has been the most difficult decision in my career, not just as mayor, but as a mom, as a friend to many of you in this room, and many of you have stepped out in ways that I can’t even imagine to support me,” she said in her closing remarks to the City Council, wearing the harried, pretend smile of someone who has made a big decision and doesn’t want anyone to talk her out of it. Let me do this, she seemed to say, so I can get re-elected or move on to something better. Joanne Spataro (@lookitsjoanne) is a writer working on a memoir. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 