This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. I’ll get to the latest Russia developments in a moment, but I want to start with a change of pace this morning. The Weekly Standard, the conservative magazine, recently ran a skeptical cover story about marijuana. Tony Mecia reported the story from Colorado, which legalized recreational use of the drug in 2014. Many other states have since relaxed their laws, and more than 60 percent of Americans now favor legalization, up from 16 percent in 1990, according to the Pew Research Center. The country’s new attitude toward marijuana has depended on the notion that it isn’t very harmful. But I don’t think we yet know how harmful it is — and, specifically, what the health effects of widespread legalization and increased marijuana use will be. “The effects of legalization,” Mecia writes, citing academic research, are “mixed at best — far from the unqualified success that marijuana boosters like to project.” In Colorado, he explains, marijuana-related traffic deaths are up, as are marijuana-related hospitalizations and the number of newborns testing positive for it. Mecia’s story focuses on Pueblo, a working-class city that has become a center for the marijuana-growing industry. I know the responses to his argument — that the criminalization of marijuana has put too many Americans behind bars, that marijuana is less harmful than alcohol and so on. But I worry that in the rush to legalize, we haven’t fully thought through what it means to create a whole new industry that encourages a lot more use of a mind-altering drug. And I worry that we may be falling prey to wishful thinking about marijuana’s effects. On the same subject: “A new evaluation of marijuana’s risks is overdue,” Aaron Carroll, a pediatrician, recently wrote in The Times. He is hardly alarmist about its effects. But he concludes: “We unquestionably need more research.” And recent research led by Deborah Hasin of Columbia University suggests that the legalization of medical marijuana in many places since the early 1990s has increased recreational use — but apparently not among teens. Honor among ‘the deep state.’ Dan Coats, President Trump’s director of national intelligence, stood up for the truth yesterday and reaffirmed the threat that Russia represents to the United States. As The Washington Post’s Eugene Robinson writes, “With a supine Congress unwilling to play the role it is assigned by the Constitution, the deep state stands between us and the abyss.” If you haven’t seen it, watch the video of Coats learning — onstage, from NBC’s Andrea Mitchell — that Trump had invited President Vladimir Putin to the White House. On CNN, Julia Ioffe called the invitation “stunning,” and Coats’s reaction a “crazy display of just how disconnected the president is from his own administration.” In The Times, Will Hurd, a House Republican from Texas, urges his colleagues to take action on Russia. “Over the course of my career as an undercover officer in the C.I.A., I saw Russian intelligence manipulate many people. I never thought I would see the day when an American president would be one of them,” he writes. “As a member of Congress, a coequal branch of government designed by our founders to provide checks and balances on the executive branch, I believe that lawmakers must fulfill our oversight duty as well as keep the American people informed of the current danger.” Unfortunately, Hurd remains a lonely voice. “I’m glad this is happening,” tweeted Lawfare’s Quinta Jurecic in response to Hurd’s op-ed, “but it’s incredibly depressing that it took this long.”