My grandmother, Toyono Higa, who turned 103 this month, is often asked about the secret to her longevity. “Honey, sweet potato and a good attitude,” she replies. She puts honey in her coffee (never sugar), and sweet potatoes have long been a staple of her diet. It can’t hurt that her parents were born in Okinawa, Japan, famed for its long-lived residents.  But I think it’s her attitude, including her ability to laugh at herself, that has helped her achieve centenarian status. A few years ago, my grandma offered to make a guest a tuna salad sandwich. Her version is deluxe: She includes herbs from her garden to go with the celery, onion, tuna and mayonnaise. The woman politely ate the sandwich, and it wasn’t until she had finished that my grandmother realized she forgot to add the tuna, and had instead served an herb and mayonnaise sandwich. She laughed and laughed when she told us about her mistake, and how her guest was too kind to point out to an old lady the crucial missing ingredient.  When you live as long as she has, some hardship is unavoidable. She was born in 1915, during World War I, and was living on the Hawaiian island of Oahu during the attack on Pearl Harbor. During the bombing, she hid my older uncle, just a baby, under the bed. Because she was in Hawaii, she had the good fortune not to be sent to an internment camp. After moving to California in her 40s, she lost her husband a few years later to a heart attack, and her youngest son died because of a weak heart when he was in his early 30s. She never learned to drive, and took multiple buses to get to work in a clothing factory. It took a couple of hours each way, and she would often depart before and return after dark. She says this prayer kept her safe as she waited for the bus: “Satan, don’t touch me. I am God’s property.”  She laments that the friends and relatives of her generation are no longer alive, yet even in her 90s, she managed to make new friends decades younger. She was at a supermarket debating whether or not to buy gobo (a long burdock root), since she worried about carrying it back to her house a few blocks away. A woman saw her and offered to carry it for her, and Grandma nicknamed her “Gobo Girl.” Her neighbor across the street massages her feet when they cramp up, and stripped her plumeria tree bare to make my grandma a gorgeous lei for her birthday.  My grandma makes everyone around her feel young, since anyone below 90 is a “young man” or “spring chicken.” She has never had a computer, and once asked my sister when she brought her laptop over, “What’s on the computer today?” as though it was a TV channel. When I showed her Snapchat, and made her look like a cat, it boggled her mind, but she thought it was hilarious.  I love sweet potatoes, but I know that there is no guarantee that I’ll become a centenarian. I’m lucky to know someone who has done it with grace, humor and curiosity.  Here are other Opinion articles and a video that provide clues to living a long, satisfying life.  Julia Baird adores “funky grandmothers you can find on Instagram who dance about in baubles and proudly sport turbans,” but her greatest fantasy is just to wear and do what she wants.  Some billionaires, already invincible in every other way, have devoted themselves to “life extension” — or as some put it, to solving “the problem of death,” says Dara Horn. And the people championing this are mainly men. Aging isn’t just for the old. Pamela Druckerman discusses the switch from being called “mademoiselle” when she moved to Paris in her early 30s, to the hailstorm of “madames” she now receives.  Maybe longevity scientists aren’t the best examples of how to live a long time, notes Pagan Kennedy. Nathan Pritikin, a prominent champion of low-fat diets, died at 69, nearly the same age as Dr. Robert Atkins, who believed in the opposite regimen. The nutritionist Adelle Davis helped to wake millions of people to the dangers of refined foods like white bread, but she died of cancer at 70.  A year ago, the director Carl Reiner beseeched Justice Kennedy, then nearing 81: Don’t retire. “How would you feel, while reading your newspaper, seeing a headline that read “Roe v. Wade Overturned”? Do you see how this could ruin a good meal? A good life? A great country?” Alas for Mr. Reiner, Justice Kennedy disregarded this advice. Inge Ginsberg is a 96-year-old Holocaust survivor who also happens to be something of a death metal icon.  Sixty is not the new 40, but that doesn’t mean you can’t find something new and difficult to immerse yourself in and improve at, says Gerald Marzorati, who took up tennis in his mid-50s. “Am I that good? No! I am 63. And I am not really concerned about where all this winds up. It’s the getting there I’m enthralled with.” We’ve been curating some of the best reads from the Opinion section each weekend. Here are collections of favorites on the joy of reading, love and relationships, the power of music, the allure of surfing and how we view money.