This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Grass-roots activism can be very good for a political party, or it can cause problems.  A story in this weekend’s Times focused on the latter — the tensions that the recent surge of left-wing activism has created for the Democratic Party. The activists, Alexander Burns of The Times wrote, “are increasingly rattling primary elections around the country, and they promise to grow as a disruptive force in national elections.” It’s clear how these tensions could hurt Democrats: Divisive primaries might alienate some voters whose preferred candidate — either on the left or in the center — doesn't win. If those voters then stay home in the general election, the party could lose winnable races. As James Comey wrote in a much-noticed tweet on Sunday: “Democrats, please, please don’t lose your minds and rush to the socialist left.” But let’s take a deep breath. I think it’s worth noting that, so far, progressive activism has been much more of a positive for Democrats than a negative.  Consider:  1) Turnout among left-leaning voters has soared in elections since President Trump took office. That turnout has helped Democrats to flip a whole bunch of previously Republican seats in both state legislatures and Congress.  2) The progressive activism has also helped recruit a deep, talented field of candidates for this year’s midterms. These nominees are mostly center-left, with several who are more strongly left-leaning, like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. The bottom line, as Bloomberg’s Jonathan Bernstein has noted, is that there are vanishingly few places in which Democrats seem likely to forfeit winnable seats because of a weak nominee or one who's out of step with the district.  3) The activism has also led to a fund-raising bonanza for the party, which will give many Democratic candidates the resources to compete this year. Again, I don’t want to discount the risks of a split between a socialist-leaning left and a more moderate center-left. If it happens, it would be a terrible development, given the importance of holding Trump accountable — which congressional Republicans have refused to do. At this point, though, it’s more of a hypothetical worry. The newfound progressive activism has many more benefits than downsides for the Democratic Party. For more on this topic: The recent history of both the Democratic and Republican parties “demonstrates that party unity is not a necessary condition for electoral success,” Matt Grossmann and David Hopkins wrote in a recent Times op-ed. And I’ll again recommend a piece in Democracy, by Lara Putnam and Theda Skocpol, on the passion and practicality of the anti-Trump resistance. Charter schools, continued. My column today — the second I’ve written from New Orleans — is a plea for a fact-based debate about education reform. Unfortunately, it’s an area where both the political right and political left traffic in ideological fairy tales. But when you look at the both the positives and negatives about charter schools, you can find some important lessons. You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).