BOSTON — Six-year-old Princess sounded out the words her mother wrote on construction paper as they worked side by side. “I … live … deep in the sea,” she read. Her mother, Bernise Hall, high-fived her. “She can read whole books,” Ms. Hall said. “She doesn’t even want me to read any more; she wants to do it herself!” The young reader asks lots of questions, too — and her mom responds. “She wants to learn about the moon,” Ms. Hall said, “so I want to find some books to help us start learning.” From across the big oval table, another mother called out a book suggestion: “There’s No Place Like Space.” It’s one of many bits of advice exchanged at this family play date at First Teacher, a parent-led movement to bolster readiness for kindergarten in Boston’s Roxbury and Dorchester neighborhoods. Princess has her own home library now. But when Ms. Hall discovered First Teacher, she and her daughter, then 2, were living in a shelter. First Teacher’s parent workshops provided Princess’s stressed-out mother a welcome diversion and a focus on the future. “I started learning all these techniques to get her ready for school,” Ms. Hall said. “In the ‘Read-shop’ workshop, we got a reading log. We’d put a sticker on it each time we read a book. It gave us a structure.” From the other parents, Ms. Hall learned more strategies that eased Princess’s start in kindergarten last year. “Princess was really, really active,” she recalled, her laugh expressing a tinge of pain. “Other parents helped me with her behavior issues.” Nearly 40 percent of Boston’s children enter kindergarten unprepared in basic literacy measures. It’s often the children of low-income households and children of color who don’t get the early experiences that get them ready for school. First Teacher aims to close the gap by fostering parents’ confidence and competence. The early-learning gap is often associated with the stubborn problem of a later school achievement gap. Closing it is urgent, but complicated. Grassroots initiatives like First Teacher face an entrenched system of top-down, white-led institutions — schools, nonprofits, social service agencies that aim to fix or instruct families and communities. But these well-intentioned efforts often leave parents of color feeling scrutinized, judged and powerless. Many people talk to African-American parents “as if they expect the worst,” said Shantae Toole, a black teacher, parent and co-founder of First Teacher. With its play dates and parent workshops, First Teacher zeros in on the parent-child interactions that prepare developing brains for learning. At the same time, it aims to upend the traditional power dynamic with a bottom-up model in which parents, rather than institutions, take the lead. Dinah Shepherd, another co-founder, is a white former teacher who built strong relationships with parents of color at her school in Boston’s high-poverty Roxbury neighborhood. She and Ms. Toole shared a frustration at seeing smart students unprepared to reach their potential. They wanted to catch such children earlier. They formed First Teacher to involve families in their young children’s early learning. Ms. Toole and Ms. Shepherd have seen parents who assume that teaching happens at school and not at home, or who have built up a distrust of agencies that seem intent on imposing a formula on them and their community from the outside — an approach that often fails. The pair wanted parents of color to be respected, trusted, included and seen as leaders. “There’s an assumption that cash-poor black and brown parents are not capable and not powerful in their kids’ lives,” Ms. Shepherd said. “We’re trying to change a mind-set.” One assumption they make is that every parent is doing something right and has ideas to share. “One of the first things we ask parents,” Ms. Toole said, “is ‘What are you already doing?’ And that asset-based ideology permeates every single thing we do.” First Teacher workshops are led by parents and run more like peer exchanges than classes. But there is one overt “teaching” aspect: All programs emphasize neuroscience findings from Harvard’s Center on the Developing Child. Its research shows that responsive interactions between young children and their earliest caregivers — like talking, pointing and reading together — actually build early brain circuitry for social-emotional and cognitive development. Workshops include short videos illustrating the brain science and the sorts of “serve-and-return” interactions that are important. Then play dates give families chances to hone their skills. The evidence that parental attention — or lack of it — can alter children’s brain development makes parents of all backgrounds eager to act. And responsive interactions can happen anywhere: In the kitchen, parents can talk with babies and children about food prep; on a bus, they can discuss what’s outside the window. “There’s no parent in the world that could know what builds their kid’s brain and not do it,” Ms. Toole said. “Even parents in the most adverse situations want to try this.” Nikole Huertas, a parent, attended an “Explore-shop” workshop full of sensory play ideas, like touching rice or shells with eyes closed and imagining ways to reuse empty boxes. It led her to change some rules at home. “Before, I wouldn’t let my daughter play with Play-Doh,” she said. “It just looked like mess. But I learned that learning can happen anywhere. ‘How high can I build this before it falls?’ That type of problem-solving is going on in my kid’s head, and I have to let it happen.” Four parents came to First Teacher’s initial workshop in 2014. Now 105 families are involved, and the program has added sessions in Spanish. Ms. Shepherd and Ms. Toole have tended First Teacher’s growth carefully. They hire staff members from the parent group. They supplement grant funding with low-key fund-raising, from running family-run lemonade stands to art sales with work donated by local artists. Language matters when ensuring that parents don’t feel judged. Ms. Shepherd, a parent herself, uses terms like “our kids” and “we” instead of “they” or “clients.” Its leaders refer to First Teacher as a movement rather than a nonprofit (though it is one). It aims not to “serve the disadvantaged” but to “build social capital,” by which they mean the kind of empowering web of resources and social and professional connections that white middle-class parents may take for granted. It’s too early to report hard data on these children’s readiness for school. But pre- and post-workshop surveys and in-depth interviews show evidence of growth among parents, the large majority of whom report they learned something new, felt respected, gained confidence in their parenting and increased interactions with their children, including more talking, reading and playing. Ms. Huertas, now First Teacher’s program coordinator, went reluctantly to the first workshop four years ago. But she said First Teacher made a big difference in her two youngest children’s school experience. “I saw a dramatic change, even in my son who had already started school,” Ms. Huertas said, noting that the first-grader’s anxiety and behavior issues at school faded once he got used to playing with unfamiliar children and adults at First Teacher. “And my baby girl, she was more prepared — and I was more prepared, more able to answer her questions: ‘Let’s find out together, let’s figure out why this happens.’” First Teacher isn’t alone in tackling socioeconomic learning gaps; there are promising efforts to curb the “summer slide” for school-age kids, and programs like the Campaign for Grade-Level Reading emphasize supporting and trusting parents. But it stands out in the organic way its leaders are bridging racial divides and using a parent-to-parent approach to equip mothers (and a few fathers) to discover and savor their role as essential first teachers. Can the model be replicated? Its leaders say yes — but only if it springs from within a community. The ideal founder would have connections to both local parents and potential funders, as Ms. Shepherd did. A successful program also needs a core of dedicated parents and a commitment to cultivating leaders from within. Ms. Shepherd said it was also important to have a range of education and income levels among participants — nobody at First Teacher is required to prove a lack of income, she said. This diversity is necessary to create a robust network offering a rich array of connections and advice. On a sunny July morning, a few dozen First Teacher parents and children chatted and played in the hour before departing on a museum field trip. The trip was part of Family Play Week, a summer day camp hosted by First Teacher, the Boston Children’s Museum and the Boston Public Schools Countdown to Kindergarten program. Alexa Saint-Fort arrived with her children, Charisma and Azariah, ages 3 and 2. The day camp has offered her family a deep bonding experience, she said. “Even though they’re with me all the time, I normally spend so much time telling them, ‘Do this, do that,’” she said. “My daughter is a curious girl, but sometimes my mind is on preparing food or getting ready for the day. But here, she asks me questions, and I’m able to answer and follow up with a question to help her think about it more.” She was surprised to notice that a number of snapshots from the week’s outings have caught her hugging or kissing the children — affectionate moments she realized had gone missing in her often-hectic days. Ms. Saint-Fort found First Teacher two years ago, shortly after her marriage ended and she became a solo parent. Grappling with how to go it alone, she attended every workshop and play date she could and found a lifeline in the supportive atmosphere. “I’m not as hard on myself now,” she said. “There’s always a voice of reassurance that you’re doing fine. No parent knows everything — we’re all figuring it out along the way.”