In February 2013, I received the greatest gift of my life, the birth of my son. Over the next three years, I watched him grow into a clever, energetic and humorous little boy. He embodies the best qualities of his mother and his father, in all the ways a parent dreams. And even though I have primary progressive multiple sclerosis, the condition didn’t hinder my ability to be a father to him. His mother and I provided a loving and supportive environment. Then his mother and I separated. She and my son moved to Austin, Tex., while I remained in New York City. I was determined to move there too, to co-parent our son. So I went to Texas to investigate what life for a Medicaid-dependent person with disabilities would be like there. I quickly found the quality of health care in Texas did not come close to what I receive in New York. I next looked at surrounding states to see if they had adequate Medicaid coverage. I discovered that funding for Medicaid varies widely by state, creating huge hurdles for sick and disabled people like myself who need to move to another state, especially those of us who need in-home round-the-clock care. The disparity amounts to institutionalized discrimination against aging and disabled people, and it prevents me from truly having a choice about where I can live. If I were to move to a nursing home, where the best level of 24-hour care in Texas is available, I would have to give up my personal aide; aides in nursing homes are expected to help multiple people simultaneously. The most basic tasks of life — showering, shaving, food preparation, eating, going to the bathroom, checking emails, answering phone calls — would be significantly more difficult, diminishing my independence as a father, personal well-being, health and even my life expectancy. In New York, because of the one-on-one care I receive, I am able to keep up with my career as a filmmaker and activist. Life has presented me with these challenges because I’m strong enough to endure them, grow from them, and help others dealing with them, too. Regardless of my disability, each day I strive to spread awareness of the damaging discrimination against the disabled population of the United States. Despite these challenges, I remember what’s most important: my son. If having a physical disability has infringed on my right and ability to be a parent to him, I fear that other disabled people may lose their right to be a parent too, to get the care they need while being with the families they love.