Who deserves to get an elite education? That question is being debated in Massachusetts, where court papers argue over Harvard’s use of race in its “holistic” admissions process, and in New York City, where politicians are trying to increase the number of black and Latino students at top public high schools. But the answer has always been obvious: only the elite. While standards of merit shift over time, prominent schools and even their critics usually take for granted admissions systems that uphold the privileges of elite groups. In the United States, “elites” are mostly white people. That means Asian-Americans and underrepresented minorities — Latinos, Native Americans and African-Americans — are pitted against one another for coveted spots at elite schools. This is patently clear in the Harvard case. A financial adviser named Edward Blum, who orchestrated Fisher v. Texas, the most recent Supreme Court case attacking affirmative action, is also behind the lawsuit against Harvard. But instead of alleging bias against whites, he and the plaintiffs use supposed anti-Asian bias as a way to undermine affirmative action for blacks and Latinos. In doing so, however, they sidestep a more glaring inequality in admissions: Harvard applicants who are recruited athletes or children of alumni enjoy significant advantages, and these candidates are disproportionately white and well-off. However, neither the university nor Mr. Blum’s legal team address this point. In fact, Mr. Blum’s expert witness, the economist Peter Arcidiacono, excludes applicants in these “special categories” from his analysis. Instead, Mr. Blum and the plaintiffs claim that black and Latino applicants unfairly have a higher chance of admission than Asian and white applicants with the same academic record. But that’s a gross misunderstanding of how admissions policies work. When evaluating applications, Harvard takes into account many nonacademic qualities, like overcoming hardship, that are not easily captured by quantitative analyses. If Mr. Blum were really concerned with fairness, he would instead question the metrics for admissions decisions that often benefit white applicants: not only athletic recruiting and legacy preferences, but also less visible but still unbalanced considerations like geographic diversity, which favors whites because minorities in the United States are concentrated on the coasts. Indeed, if race alone is removed as a factor in admissions, as Mr. Blum wants, the group that will gain the most might not be Asian-Americans, but whites. Further down the East Coast, Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York has proposed revamping admissions at eight of the city’s “specialized high schools.” These eight sought-after schools admit students solely on the basis of a standardized test. The State Legislature passed a law in 1971 to deter efforts to open those schools to black New Yorkers who can’t afford test prep and don’t have the networks to help them navigate the admissions process. Mr. de Blasio’s goal of making these elite schools more accessible to the two-thirds of the city’s public school students who are black or Latino is worthy of the fight necessary to change the law. But his proposal leaves out major changes that the city can make without state approval — changes that the new school chancellor, Richard Carranza,  has already set in motion. This includes reforms to admissions into the one-third of city high schools that screen applicants, rather than consider any student interested in the school. Seventy-eight high schools give priority to students who live nearby. For example, whites are overrepresented in Manhattan’s affluent District 2’s desirable schools because admissions policies consider where a student lives. These selective schools educate more New York children than the specialized schools covered by Mr. de Blasio’s proposal. But the mayor has put his weight behind only changes to the specialized high schools. Perhaps he’s afraid of angering white parents. As our colleagues Syed Ali and Margaret Chin have argued, it’s not a coincidence that Asian-American students are the most overrepresented at the specialized schools but wealthy whites are the more overrepresented group at these other schools. In our highly unequal society, education systems have consistently found ways to favor elite, white applicants, whether it’s through slippery definitions of “merit,” giving added weight to athletes or children of alumni, or fighting to change admissions policies to schools in which Asians are more overrepresented rather than those where whites are. Admissions policies continue to push people of color to the margins while ensuring that a quorum of white students always have a place. To move toward a more equitable system, we must reject efforts to sow dissent between minority communities, as Mr. Blum is doing. But we also must reject educational systems that, behind a supposed commitment to equity, quietly perpetuate the status quo. Instead of focusing on who from the margins is able to get in, we would do better to direct our attention to the fundamental ways selective admissions and educational institutions maintain the privileges of whiteness.