This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. The first Michael Cohen-Donald Trump tape is a bit of a black box. It’s not clear exactly what either one is saying or what they mean.  We now know that President Trump and his aides have repeatedly lied about the efforts to cover up an alleged affair he had with a former Playboy model. Almost everything else — including whether the tape creates new legal problems for Trump — is unknown at this point. For anyone trying to follow this story, I’d offer one overarching tip: You should put zero weight on the claims made by Trump and his team, including Rudy Giuliani. They have shown that they’re willing to lie whenever it suits their cause. Giuliani’s earlier description of the Cohen-Trump tape — from just six days ago — now appears laughably inaccurate.  I am not saying that Trump and Giuliani are always lying. When the truth helps them, they speak it. But the mere fact that they make a claim shouldn’t alter anyone’s judgment about its likely veracity.  Related, from The Washington Post: “The government has seized more than 100 recordings that Cohen made of his conversations with people discussing matters that could relate to Trump and his businesses and with Trump himself talking.” Georgia. The Cook Political Report yesterday upgraded the chances of Stacey Abrams, the Democratic nominee for governor in Georgia. The Republican, Brian Kemp, is still favored, Jennifer Duffy of The Cook Political Report writes, but only modestly, because he’s an extreme candidate who may turn off swing voters.  One statistic in Duffy’s piece captures why Kemp remains favored.  Abrams generated enormous excitement in the primary. She’s an appealing candidate — the first female African-American gubernatorial nominee in any state — with an uplifting message. When I watched her victory speech on primary night, I thought I might be witnessing a new national star.  And yet for all the excitement about Abrams, turnout in the Republican primary was still higher than in the Democratic primary. In fact, more Republicans voted in this week’s runoff — won by Kemp — than Democrats voted in the original primary. There are simply more Republican than Democratic voters in Georgia.  Yes, Abrams can significantly improve her chances by turning out even more progressives — especially younger and nonwhite voters — in the general election. But she almost certainly needs to win over some traditional Republican voters too. The extreme nature of Kemp’s campaign should help. So should her populist message. It’s a fascinating race.  “Wait a second, you might be thinking, Hillary Clinton lost Georgia by only 5 percentage points in 2016. And Georgia has been getting bluer. Is Abrams’s climb really that steep? Yes, it is,” Perry Bacon Jr. wrote for FiveThirtyEight earlier this year.  You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).