Even as corporate America has unleashed insatiable consumer demand for innovative low-cost goods and technology, it has driven economic trends that continue to increase inequality, stall wage growth and strengthen the power of business.  That in the face of this onslaught Republicans now control the White House, both branches of Congress, both legislative branches in 32 states and the Supreme Court is a testament to the continuing electoral liabilities of the Democratic Party and the vulnerable spots of the liberal agenda.  Nearly half the country’s voters support a president who embraces upwardly redistributive policies that many of them do not benefit from.  Why? Because on race, religion, abortion, LGBTQ rights and immigration, President Trump — unlike previous Republican presidents — has given his voters exactly what they want.  This is patently true in the case of immigration. As The Washington Post reported in June, “The Trump administration has ramped up arrests of illegal immigrants, slashed refugee programs, criminalized unauthorized border crossings” and secured a ban on travelers from six majority-Muslim nations. But recent scholarly research shows how the interests of those on top of the economic pyramid are gaining strength.  “Industries are increasingly characterized by a ‘winner take most’ feature where a small number of firms gain a very large share of the market,” David Autor, an economist at M.I.T., and four co-authors, write in “The Fall of the Labor Share and the Rise of Superstar Firms.”  They go on: Markets have changed such that firms with superior quality, lower costs, or greater innovation reap disproportionate rewards relative to prior eras. Since these superstar firms have higher profit levels, they also tend to have a lower share of labor in sales and value-added. As superstar firms gain market share across a wide range of sectors, the aggregate share of labor falls.  According to Autor and his colleagues, the decline in the size of the pie going to labor — known among economists as “labor share” — coincides with the rise of superstar firms and increasingly with the use of outsourcing to “temporary help agencies and independent contractors and freelancers for a wider range of activities previously done in-house, including janitorial work, food services, logistics and clerical work.” The outcome of these developments, Autor writes, is the “fissuring of the workplace” that  can directly reduce the labor share by saving on the wage premia typically paid by large high-wage employers to ordinary workers and by reducing the bargaining power of both in-house and outsourced workers in occupations subject to outsourcing threats and increased labor market competition.  Together, these workplace trends account “for a significant portion of the increase in U.S. wage inequality since 1980.” The steady erosion of workers’ bargaining power described by Autor is one part of a much broader phenomenon encompassing both the private and public sectors. Policymaking, judicial decisions and structural changes in the economy have functioned in concert to weaken the clout of voters, consumers, workers and minorities — with considerable support and little or no objection from a key part of the electorate.  The Supreme Court has played a well-documented role in this process, especially in decisions on campaign finance and business law that have empowered corporations and the super rich. “The Court has given the green light to restrictive voter identification laws, without requiring states to prove that such laws prevent any appreciable amount of voter fraud or promote public confidence in the fairness of the electoral process,” Richard Hasen, a law professor at the University of California-Irvine, wrote in an email in response to my inquiry:  It refused to rein in partisan gerrymandering. The court’s decisions also limit the power of unions, as in June’s Janus decision, and the Court’s love of arbitration and dislike of class actions have made it much harder for employees and consumers to achieve any kind of effective redress when faced with illegal behavior by employers and businesses. A team of four economists at the Brookings Institution’s Hamilton Project — Jay Shambaugh, Ryan Nunn, Audrey Breitwieser and Patrick Liu — captured many of these trends in a paper they published in June, “The State of Competition and Dynamism: Facts about Concentration, Start-Ups, and Related Policies.” The authors document increasing market concentration: From 1997 to 2012 the average revenues of the top four firms in a given industry rose from 24 percent to 33 percent of total industry revenues. Over the same period, investment returns for nonfinancial firms in the 90th percentile “grew 160 percent” while firms “in 25th percentile grew only 2 percent.” What economists’ technical language can mask is that this amounts to a lot of pain for a lot of people. The downstream consequences of concentration for employees are substantial, Shambaugh et al write: “Concentration in product markets can be mirrored by its labor market equivalent — monopsony — that exists when employers face limited competition for workers.” Firms dominating concentrated labor markets “face relatively inelastic labor supply” (i.e., job choices are limited) which, in turn, allows employers to “reduce wages without losing all (or even a large fraction) of their workforces.” Reduced competition between corporations contributed to a wide range of adverse consequences, according to Shambaugh and his colleagues:  Measured productivity growth has slowed, investment by firms (relative to their profits) is lower than in the past, job mobility across firms has declined, and labor’s share of income has fallen. Among economists, one of the most discussed developments is the precipitous decline in the percentage of total economic output flowing to labor, as shown in the accompanying chart. In a 2016 paper, “Declining Labor and Capital Shares,” Simcha Barkai, a professor of finance at the London School of Business, found that the decline in labor share produced a big winner, the profit share, which rose from 2 percent of gross domestic product in 1984 to 16 percent in 2014. Barkai writes: To offer a sense of magnitude, the combined shares of labor and capital decline 13.9 percentage points, which amounts to $1.2 trillion in 2014. Estimated profits in 2014 were approximately 15.7 percent, which is equal to $1.35 trillion or $17,000 for each of the approximately 80 million employees in the corporate nonfinancial sector. In other words, shareholders and business owners amassed profits amounting to $1.35 trillion or $17,000 per employee as a result of the increase in profit share. Barkai contends that market concentration is a major factor in the decline of labor share: “Results show that the decline in the labor share is strongly associated with an increase in concentration.” Luigi Zingales, professor of entrepreneurship and finance at the University of Chicago, wrote that the sharp increase in profits reflects Warren Buffett’s investment dictum: “I look for economic castles protected by unbreachable ‘moats’ ” — profits have risen “because firms became better at creating product differentiation and erecting barriers to entry.” What does all this mean? I asked Daron Acemoglu, a professor of economics at M.I.T., and he emailed me back: Both the decline in the labor share and stagnating median wages are a consequence of the fact that three things are happening: 1. Production is becoming more capital intensive (automation is part of it). 2. Some jobs are being offshored, so no more employment and wages in these jobs in the US, but companies doing the offshoring are still performing less labor-intensive parts of production and getting profits. 3. A general increase in profits. Acemoglu notes that the third point should be considered separately because without any change in production techniques and organization of production, the labor share may decline and wages may stagnate because firms that have greater market power (think Apple, think Google, think Microsoft) make a lot more (a lot a lot a lot more) profits. Autor pointed out that the shift in the share of G.D.P. from labor to profits affects inequality in that payments to capital and profits are much more unequally distributed than payment to wages. So if a larger fraction of G.D.P. is being paid to owners of capital and to claimants on profits (shareholders, owners of privately held corporations) and less in wages and salaries, this implies a rise in income inequality between typical households — which live on wage/salary income — and wealthier households that often have these other assets and instruments. This bleak tale does not end here, as new pieces of evidence accumulate. Dominique Guellec and Caroline Paunov, senior economists at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, argued in a 2017 paper, “Digital Innovation and the Distribution of Income,” that without government intervention, increased inequality is virtually inevitable: The growing importance of digital innovation — new products and processes based on software code and data — has increased market rents, which benefit disproportionately the top income groups. In line with Schumpeter’s vision, digital innovation gives rise to ‘winner-take-all’ market structures, characterized by higher market power and risk than was the case in the previous economy of tangible products.  Increased profits, in turn, “accrue mainly to investors and top managers and less to the average workers, hence increasing income inequality.” Looking at inequality from a different angle, Annette Alstadsæter, Niels Johannesen and Gabriel Zucman, professors of economics at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences, the University of Copenhagen and Berkeley, found in their paper “Who Owns The Wealth In Tax Havens?” that wealth inequality worldwide has been substantially underestimated because so much of it is put into overseas tax havens.  How much money are we talking about? The equivalent of 10 percent of world GDP is held in tax havens globally, but this average masks a great deal of heterogeneity — from a few percent of GDP in Scandinavia, to about 15 percent in Continental Europe, and 60 percent in Gulf countries and some Latin American economies. In the United States, the top 0.01 percent holds 9.9 percent of the nation’s total wealth excluding deposits in tax havens. When wealth in tax havens is included, the share held by the top 0.01 percent rises to 11.2 percent. While an increase from 9.9 to 11.2 percent amounts to a 1.3 percentage point increase, in real dollars that translates to $1.06 trillion, or roughly $40 million for every adult in the top 0.01 percent.  A continued failure of wages to advance, despite job growth, while corporate profits shoot up to record levels would give Democrats a significant counterargument to legitimate Republican claims of overall economic improvement.  Wage stagnation or growth will play a crucial role in answering the key political question: Which party will win control of the House in 2018? Democrats are generally favored, but they do not have a lock by any means.  Larry Sabato, a political scientist at the University of Virginia and a political prognosticator, recently suggested the possibility of a modest Democratic tilt — and even then was extremely cautious: Democrats are now a little better than 50-50 to win the House. This is the first time this cycle we’ve gone beyond 50-50 odds on a House turnover. That is, there is just shy of a 50 percent chance that the nation will remain under full Republican control after Nov. 6.  Throwing a wrench into these calculations — amid increasing ambiguity about the precision of political projections — is recent research suggesting that more sophisticated techniques in predicting election outcomes actually drive down turnout.  In a paper published in February, “Projecting Confidence: How the Probabilistic Horse Race Confuses and Demobilizes the Public,” Sean Westwood, Solomon Messing and Yphtach Lelkes of Dartmouth, Pew and the University of Pennsylvania, write:  Horse race coverage in American elections has shifted focus from late-breaking poll numbers to sophisticated meta-analytic forecasts that often emphasize candidates’ probability of victory. These improvements, in turn, “lower uncertainty about an election’s outcome, which lowers turnout under the model.” The effect, then, is that when one candidate is ahead, win probabilities convey substantially more confidence that she will win compared to vote share estimates. Even more importantly, we show that these impressions of probabilistic forecasts cause people not to vote in a behavioral game that simulates elections. In the context of the existing literature, the magnitude of these findings suggests that probabilistic horse race coverage can confuse and demobilize the public. If Westwood, Messing and Lelkes are right, the question for 2018 will be which demographic and generational groups will see their turnout climb or drop the most. Since 2016, Trump has successfully angered millions of voters, especially women, who have been mobilizing in support of Democratic House and Senate candidacies. Vilified and insulted members of racial and ethnic minorities are seething. At the same time, millions of others — a majority of them men — have been infuriated by economic and cultural developments they feel have devastated neighborhoods, local environments and workplaces so that they can no longer recognize them. How many Americans will yield to apathy and how many will believe with conviction that each vote matters?  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 