LONDON — There is a villa in Ses Salines, a small town off the southeast coast of Majorca known for its ancient salt mines, where 11 men and women have come together to teach Britain about gender politics and also to relentlessly shag. By day they discuss “vibes” and analyze where the boys’ “heads are at”; after dark, night-vision cameras watch their bodies scrabble rhythmically under duvets. Those who manage to couple up compete for a prize of £50,000; those left single are sent home, though the public can occasionally weigh in to vote people off, too. It’s Tinder made flesh, with all the horror that suggests, but also with sociological insights. “Love Island,” whose season finale airs July 30, has infected Britain. For the past two months, a pinkish sort of smog has hung over all chat, whether in the House of Commons or on the 38 bus. “People used to say to me: ‘Oh, it’s my guilty pleasure,’” Channel ITV2’s creative director Richard Cowles told The Guardian. “And last year they dropped the guilty.” The launch episode of this year’s season had around three million viewers, making it the most-watched show ever on ITV2, a relatively small broadcaster. But the viewing figure alone doesn’t do justice to the scale of its impact on the public imagination.  Some have started to question what makes this seemingly regressive reality show, now in its fourth season, so popular. So popular in 2018, when, post-MeToo, every other part of culture appears to be moving forward. And with such a broad split of the population, from feminist M.P.s to Liam Gallagher to the England World Cup team. What keeps them watching? Because it’s not just the porny appeal of the contestants, with their bodies spread across plastic furniture like butter. Not just the women, all perfectly cast as the first to be killed in a horror film, barely a body hair between them, teetering in heels at 9 a.m. Not just the men, with their buffets of abs, skin the gentle teak of midcentury furniture, indistinguishable but for their banter. (Yes, this is a festival of banter, that ancient language of British men.) Not the contest itself, with its dystopian coupling ceremonies, where the crackle of hearts breaking is audible against the soundtrack of uplifting house music. It’s not even the sex, performed nightly in the communal bedroom after the tumescent heat of a Spanish afternoon.  No, the pull of “Love Island” is in the very contrast between the show and the politics of 2018. They are not at odds; they work in tandem. 2018 provides the vocabulary, the tools for a satisfyingly enlightened discussion of what we’re seeing on screen; “Love Island” provides the raw material for our growing sense of righteous indignation. Together they are more than the sum of their parts, allowing “Love Island” to function as a sort of technicolor locus of all Britain’s gender and sexual anxieties. It started with Adam Collard. Early on the show Mr. Collard, a personal trainer who looked at women like a snake planning its next meal, told one woman, fellow contestant Rosie Williams, that it was her behavior that pushed him to pursue another. He was so manipulative that a domestic abuse charity was prompted to make a statement about unhealthy relationships: Katie Ghose, the chief executive of Women’s Aid, said there were “clear warning signs” in Mr. Collard’s treatment of Ms. Williams, explaining that he had exhibited signs of “gaslighting and emotional abuse.” Watching the relationship play out at home, screaming at the screen, the effect was not that toxic masculinity was being normalized, as some critics complained, but instead exposed.  A lot of dynamics burble to the surface when you barricade a group of young people in a house and tell them to mate. Alex George, an emergency room doctor distinctive initially for his worthy job and lack of fake tan, at first failed to couple up. Rejected by every woman on the show, Mr. George found an unexpected fan base in incels, who gathered on Reddit, 4chan and other message boards to support “our boy,” a sunburned, mainstream mascot for their cause. “They won’t kiss him, but when they need hospital treatment, they will go to him and expect to be treated,” wrote one user, Lonelycel, suggesting, radically, that medical care should be repaid with romance. He then went on to call the women on the show “hypocritical” and “femoid.” Mr. George eventually grudgingly partnered with Samira Mighty, the show’s first black female contestant, whose presence in the villa exposed the contestants’ very narrow definition of their “type” — she was the last woman to find a match. Her rejections prompted an array of think pieces on race and dating, while Mr. George went on to become an object not of pity but of outrage, after placing a fellow contestant’s hand down his pants during a hookup. “No one’s going to mention how disgusting it is that Alex shoved Alexandra’s hand in his shorts without her consent?” tweeted one viewer. Is “Love Island” reality television, or is “Love Island” now shaping reality itself? Lines have been crossed, straightened, blurred and reblurred. Early in the season, while the contestants Zara McDermott and Laura Anderson were in the villa navigating the etiquette of evening swimwear, ex-partners were sharing intimate videos of them online; one female M.P. in turn used them as examples to condemn revenge-porn attacks and push for a review of the law. The show has also become an avenue for body image debates: An academic from Leeds Beckett University worried that teenage boys who go to the gym are increasingly tempted to use risky supplements to get “Love Island bodies,” while the chief executive of National Health Service England raised concerns about advertisements for cosmetic breast surgery during the show, claiming they were “playing into a set of pressures around body image.” Sitting as it does at the intersection of trash and politics, coming, as it does, at a time when British viewers are hungry for lessons on modern gender politics, gaslighting and the limits of masculinity, “Love Island,” perhaps unexpectedly, is mainstreaming some complicated debates. Yet for all the ways the show reaches into the cracks in the culture to create space for important conversation, it does all seem a bit “Et in Arcadia Ego,” doesn’t it? Even on Majorca, especially on Majorca, there is no respite from 2018. But it makes for excellent television.  Eva Wiseman (@EvaWiseman) is a columnist and editor at The Observer. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.