Amid the political turmoil of the past few years, there have been faint rustlings of a democratic revival. States have begun to take steps to empower citizens by making voting easier and more inclusive. Since 2015, 12 states have adopted automatic voter registration; voters in Florida will decide in November on a ballot initiative to restore voting rights to felons; in New York and Virginia, Democratic governors have done so (in the case of New York extending these rights to parolees); and the District of Columbia may lower its voting age to 16. These bright spots in an otherwise bleak political landscape hint at a path forward for American democracy. Seldom, if ever, have Democrats had so much to gain by increasing turnout. At the same time, the generational tide has turned decisively in the Democratic Party’s favor, with millennials poised to push the electorate steadily to the left. As these two trends converge over the next decade, major election reforms long written off as unrealistic will suddenly become politically viable. While it is tempting to view elections as being decided in the moment, much of the groundwork is set in place decades earlier. Looking at survey data from the 1950s, political scientists observed that voters who came of age during the Great Depression identified as Democrats at much higher rates than prior and subsequent generations. The Great Depression and the remaking of American government during the New Deal left a lasting imprint on a generation of voters. A 2014 study by Andrew Gelman and Yair Ghitza demonstrates that the “political events of a voter’s teenage and early adult years, centered around the age of 18, are enormously important in the formation of these long-term partisan preferences.” We often underappreciate how generational turnover affects our politics. As a generation of New Deal Democrats grew older (and more likely to vote), they created a generational advantage that helped Democrats maintain majority control of the House of Representatives for nearly four decades. When Republicans finally retook Congress in the 1994 election, it too was a predictable consequence of a changing electorate: The New Deal Democrats had given way to a solidly Republican generation of voters who came of age during the early years of the Cold War. This made the return of Republican majorities during the 1990s or 2000s likely, if not inevitable. Once again, the nation is on the cusp of a generational revolution. As a group, millennials favor Democrats by nearly a 2 to 1 margin. Millennials are unlikely to trend Republican as they age so long as the current hyper-polarized political environment persists. However, they will become more likely to vote. (A general rule of thumb is that turnout increases by about one percentage point with each year of age.) This makes it possible to in essence fast-forward the electorate to forecast how the generational advantage will change over the next decade. The Republican Party, after years of ascendancy, is about to fall off an electoral cliff. By 2026, according to an analysis of data from the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, millennials are expected to account for 19 percent of votes cast, up from 12 percent in 2014, with Democratic-leaning Gen Xers and Gen Zers accounting for an additional 34 percent. As this happens, the Republican-leaning Silent Generation is projected to account for 8 percent of votes cast in 2026, down from 23 percent in 2014. Democrats could sit back and let this process play out. But that would be a mistake. As favorable as the generational trends look for Democrats, the potential gains from increasing turnout are even greater. According to the generational forecast, heading into the 2018 midterms Democrats have a four-point advantage among likely voters — up three points from 2010 — and a 14-point advantage were nonvoters to turn out. Once Democrats get serious about increasing turnout, there are a variety of effective means to do so. A good start would be to revive proposals to make Election Day a national holiday. Younger voters are more likely to be paid hourly and to work jobs that offer less flexibility, making it more difficult to find time to vote. This can be accomplished simply by moving an existing national holiday to Election Day. Presidents’ Day has been moved before. It can move again. Other obvious fixes include national automatic voter registration and voting by mail. Oregon — which has seen a 20-point increase in youth turnout since 2012 — demonstrates how effective combining automatic voter registration and voting by mail can be for increasing youth turnout. Elected officials should be prepared to invest in digital infrastructure and other types of technology to make voting easier and more secure. There are plenty of smart, highly skilled tech workers who would jump at the opportunity to apply their talents to increase political participation. America can engineer a way for its citizens to vote online without sacrificing security or a paper trail. The Democratic Party should also take a principled stand against disenfranchisement in all its forms. There are 19.4 million Americans of voting age (or roughly the voting age population of Texas) who are ineligible to vote. Felon disenfranchisement, for example, is a needlessly anti-democratic practice. Most other advanced democracies allow felons to vote, even while they are in prison. So do Maine and Vermont. Stripping felons of their voting rights does little more than deprive an already severely marginalized population of a much-needed political voice. It gives politicians little reason to care if prisoners are mistreated or what becomes of them after they are released, all the while doing nothing to deter crime. The same goes for other groups denied political representation, as we have seen play out in Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria. To this end, Democrats should work toward granting statehood to the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and citizenship to Dreamers and other undocumented immigrants. Republicans will do everything in their power to block these reforms. It will be up to Democrats to ensure they don’t succeed. When Democrats take back the Senate — whenever that actually happens — it will be well within their power to modify Senate rules about which bills can be filibustered. Senate rules already exempt certain budgetary legislation. What harm would there be in adopting a similar rule to exempt legislation that would increase political participation? If Republicans can pass a deeply unpopular tax bill with 50 votes, why should Democrats need 60 votes to help people vote? The courts are likely to present an additional hurdle to reform efforts. Democrats, then, would do well to remember that the Constitution grants Congress broad powers to legislate to protect and enlarge voting rights, enshrined in the 15th, 19th and 26th Amendments. Some Democratic incumbents might oppose reform efforts for fear of being challenged in the primaries. They should be ignored. That kind of thinking belongs in the party’s past. Besides, dislodging an incumbent in a primary remains a herculean feat. Carrying out practical and proven policies to increase voter turnout will swell Democratic majorities, strengthen the party’s mandate to govern and shore up support for progressive policies. Medicare for All would be a much easier sell if 18-year-olds turned out like 80-year-olds. So would policies intended to combat economic inequality. Among advanced democracies, turnout in national elections is a strong predictor of income inequality. The United States has both the lowest turnout and highest share of income going to the top 1 percent. This is unlikely to be a coincidence. There are good theoretical reasons to believe the two are related. This makes democracy an issue to campaign on. The Democratic base understands that it is waging a battle for the future of the country. Many Democrats are rightly concerned about the state of our democracy. They are also painfully aware that our electoral system is biased against them. A rallying cry to put democracy back on the offensive will get the base to sit up and pay attention. Delivering on the promise will get them to the polls. What the party needs now are leaders willing to champion electoral reforms. To any potential 2020 presidential contenders out there, know this: If you make comprehensive electoral reforms the centerpiece of your administration’s first 100 days, you will have all but guaranteed your re-election and the congressional majorities needed to push forward on the rest of your policy agenda. Fixing our democracy is perhaps our best shot at getting Congress back to work on solving the serious problems facing the nation. Generational change is coming and with it an opportunity to fundamentally transform American government and who it serves, so long as Democrats insist on making voters mirror the population and do everything in their power to make it happen. This is not about weaponizing electoral institutions for partisan gain; it is about delivering on the promise of American democracy. The nation is at its best when democracy is on the rise. Many of our most celebrated figures — George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Frederick Douglass, Susan B. Anthony, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Cesar Chavez — fought to enfranchise the disenfranchised and left a more inclusive republic as their legacy. Let’s finish what they started.