The Commerce Department recently asked for public comments on the Trump administration’s proposed tariffs on automobiles and auto parts. When the deadline for submissions hit, more than 2,000 individuals, businesses and organizations had had their say. The vast majority were opposed to the tariffs. Following are edited excerpts from some of those comments.  During the Great Recession of 2007-2009, Honda did not lay off any of its full-time permanent associates in the U.S., and we have continued to increase our employment numbers since then. If the concern is that imports are damaging the national economy, Section 232 [of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962] is not the right tool to address the problem. There is an arsenal of weapons in U.S. trade law that enable the government to address economic risk. Actions can be brought for dumping, countervailing duties, patent infringement and safeguard protections, to name a few. VWGoA [Volkswagen Group of America] does not see how continuing imports of automobiles and automotive parts at current levels could impair U.S. national security. This proposition — supported by no U.S. motor vehicle manufacturer — is implausible.  VWGoA’s plant has created 12,400 full-time jobs in Tennessee and helped attract 17 supplier companies to the Chattanooga area. These supplier companies in turn have invested over $275 million in Tennessee and, in so doing, created an additional 1,100 jobs. VWGoA’s manufacturing operations likewise have increased local and state tax revenues by $53.5 million annually. Tariffs placed on imported materials used to build vehicles in Alabama could dramatically increase the cost of those vehicles. Tariffs placed on vehicles exported from Alabama would increase the cost, hurting the competitiveness of those vehicles in foreign markets. The inability to remain competitive will drive down automotive production, destroying Alabama jobs.  Estimates show that a 10 percent decrease in Alabama-made vehicle exports could result in the loss of approximately 4,000 jobs in Alabama. Such a loss would be devastating to thousands of families across our state. These are Alabama families who are dependent on the income from working in these facilities. I strongly oppose any efforts that may harm those companies that employ thousands of Alabamians and contribute billions to our economy.  We fully understand the motive for encouraging the displacement of foreign-made automobiles with American-made automobiles. That’s why we welcome the Volkswagen Chattanooga Assembly Plant to our community; that’s why we are also glad to have Nissan’s operations located in the State of Tennessee, and that’s why were glad that both of them use the F.T.Z. [Free Trade Zone] program to lower their costs of producing American-made motor vehicles.  However, we hope you understand that placing an additional 20 percent duty on any imported automotive parts would contribute to the displacement of purchases of new American-made automobiles by extending the use of cars already on America’s roads today. Accordingly, it makes sense to keep American-made automobiles affordable by leaving the tariff rates that currently apply to imported automobile parts at current levels.  The collective agencies and institutions comprising the Delaware River port system are in the process of completing a deepening of the Delaware River navigational channel from 40 to 45 feet — a project nearly 30 years in the making — at a cost of more than $360 million in federal, state and local dollars. The purpose of the project is to accommodate the larger classes of vessels now transiting the Panama Canal from Asia and opening the port to more traffic from Europe, including automobiles. The port is now capable of handling large RoRo [roll-on, roll-off] vessels used to carry automobiles, light trucks and vans; in 2017 the port cleared more than $3 billion in automotive cargo, making automobiles the sixth-largest commodity sector in the port based on revenue impacts.  A decision to impose a significant customs duty on imported cars and parts, for our port, would effectively turn back 30 years of planning, five years of construction, and millions of dollars of infrastructure improvements at marine terminals beyond those expended for the deepening itself.  Washington State is the most trade-driven economy in the country, with 40 percent of all jobs tied to international trade, and Oregon’s economy is similarly globally dependent. We know that these kinds of unilateral trade actions by the United States inevitably result in retaliation by our trading partners — as we have seen with the Section 232 steel and aluminum tariffs and the Section 301 [of the Trade Act of 1974] China tariffs — which can further harm our states’ trade economy by reducing exports from our farmers, ranchers, manufacturers and retailers.  We export $19 billion in goods through our gateways to Japan, Korea, China and Taiwan — which are the top importers of autos and auto parts through our gateways — including 70 percent of Port of Tacoma exports, 70 percent of exports from Portland Harbor and 75 percent of Port of Vancouver exports. For example, the Port of Portland is the leading exporter of autos on the West Coast, with 87,000 Fords bound for Asia last year. The potential impact of retaliation from these trading partners is significant and must be considered before you make a final determination on any Section 232 action.  My husband and I both work for Southeast Bumpers and Collision Parts. We are parents of five children ranging from 23 to 4. We also have a granddaughter. The company we work for is a small business. Our entire family’s future rests on these taxes not being implemented. If these were implemented the business that we work for would not be able to continue, resulting in not losing just one of our incomes but both of them. Please consider all of the families that this will affect if this passes. We are a small $2 million per year business that operates in Sanford, Fla. We import automobile steel stampings from Taiwan and assemble reproduction car bodies for classic cars. We also sell parts wholesale and retail. If we are taxed at 25 percent for the items we import (or even 5 percent), our business quickly becomes obsolete, as our wholesale and retail prices will become too high for our customers. Myself and all of our employees voted Republican/Trump in the 2016 election and we have great faith in him. Our business and suppliers pose zero threat to our national security. Instead, we employ American workers, building products that Americans and foreigners wish to buy. Our products do not compete with anything currently produced in the U.S.A. Don’t ruin our American dream! China has now lifted the duty on U.S. sorghum and stopped its antidumping investigation, but the damage has been done to U.S. sorghum producers and exporters. It is also important to remember that if our trade partners were to retaliate against U.S. actions on automobiles, there is nothing that precludes them from applying additional tariffs on the same products already subject to tariffs because of other U.S. trade actions. This could potentially lead to large cumulative tariffs that would completely price U.S. agricultural products out of foreign markets.  We have seen this occur in the case of China, which has applied retaliatory tariffs on many agricultural products twice, as the result of the Section 232 steel and aluminum case and the 301 investigations. The combined tariffs faced by U.S. agricultural products range from 40 to 50 percent. The Farm Bureau urges our trade officials to engage in discussions to resolve trade concerns before resorting to tariffs. Tariffs targeting the many countries that export automobiles and automotive parts will potentially result in extensive additional retaliation against U.S. agricultural exports by tariffs and other restrictions. These tariffs and the resulting retaliation — which will be on top of the existing steel and aluminum tariffs and retaliation against the U.S. chemical sector — will cause damaging direct and indirect effects on the U.S. chemicals industry, its $194 billion of planned investments in job-creating chemical plants in the United States, and its increasing export competitiveness.  Today, American chemical manufacturers produce 15 percent of the world's chemicals, and account for 14 percent of all U.S. exports, amounting to $181 billion in 2017. The U.S. has a large and growing trade surplus in industrial chemicals of $33 billion in 2017. Given the competitive advantage that has been created by the American shale gas revolution, that surplus in chemicals is estimated to grow to $73 billion by 2022. Our strong view is that tariffs and resulting retaliation on imported autos and auto parts will threaten the promise of our industry and its contribution to the U.S. manufacturing renaissance. Tariffs will ultimately weaken our national security, not strengthen it.  My business started with the purchase of one car which, incidentally, I sold to an overseas buyer and exported. Nearly 30 years and thousands of transactions later, I have built one of the largest businesses of its kind in the United States. At times, as much as 70 percent of our business has taken place on an international level in the buying/importing and selling/exporting of vintage vehicles. If these 25 percent tariffs are allowed to proceed, the resulting slowdown of trade and fall of vintage automobile values will have a lasting negative effect on our economy.  As a restorer and collector, and immediate past chairman of the board of the Petersen Automotive Museum in Los Angeles, I find this path misguided, foolish and harmful to those in an industry and hobby that have never represented a security threat. In short, it is beyond silly. Please do not move forward with this regulation! I run a nonprofit car-repair charity that helps impoverished single moms in the Brazos Valley in Texas near Texas A&M. We need car repair parts for vehicles, both foreign and domestic, at the lowest possible price to get these moms back on the road. Any regulation that increases the price of these repair parts hurts our ability to help the needy. Please reject this regulation. Thank you.