My father had a habit of reading the newspaper every morning. Joining him in this endeavor was a treat for me. Often the rest of the family was still sleeping, and he would sneak me a little coffee so I could feel sophisticated while we perused The Baltimore Sun.  Since we lived in Maryland, he would often talk about how the Orioles were doing. Most of the time, the news was not good. In 1988, when I was 11, the team had the worst start in major league history. It was agonizing to be associated with them. But they also had Cal Ripken Jr., a shortstop who was chasing Lou Gehrig’s record for most consecutive games played. He was working on the streak for most of my childhood and teenage years, from 1982 to 1995. His methodical march led to conversations with my dad about stories and statistics and baseball lore. We watched “The Pride of the Yankees” and I learned about Gehrig’s interesting, too-short life; I read up on colorful tidbits about the game; and for a time I was a big baseball nerd.  I became a Mets fan when I moved to New York after college, beginning another roller coaster ride of fandom. (I could never be a Yankees fan. See Barry Levinson’s piece below, and also I’ll never forget you, Jeff Maier.) To this day, if the Orioles or the Mets have a shot at the postseason, I become engrossed. It doesn’t look like 2018 is going to be either team’s year, and that’s O.K. There’s always next year. In the meantime, I pulled out some pieces that reflect on the game, in all its imperfect glory.  How do events from our childhood shape our adult preferences? If a team wins a World Series when a boy is 8, it increases the probability that he will support the team as an adult. (This explains why so many men around my age are Mets fans.) What we want for a president is a person who grew up in the bleachers of Wrigley Field, learning humility and loss, the fleeting nature of glory. Yogi Berra wrote an Op-Ed 42 years after catching Don Larsen’s perfect game in the 1956 World Series: “It's not always so easy, because pitchers think they're so smart all the time. You have to handle each one differently. You have to know which guys you holler at, which guys you just pet.” The filmmaker Barry Levinson wrote about being a Baltimore Orioles fan through good times and bad. In late ’60s and ’70s, there was a lot of winning — and some sweet satisfaction because the Yankee teams were in the toilet. From the writer Colum McCann: “I never meant to fall in love with baseball, but I did. I learned to realize that it does what all good sports should do: it creates the possibility of joy.” In 1947, Jackie Robinson confronted racism by standing alone on a field and playing ball well. Leonard S. Coleman Jr. paid tribute to him 40 years later in this Op-Ed and called for more diversity in baseball management. (Bonus: Here’s a piece from the day Robinson was called up to the majors.) The conventional wisdom is that baseball is for boys and men and softball is for girls and women. But women have been playing baseball since long before they had the right to vote. Another one for the Yankees haters? Yes. “By exciting in the rest of us that sweet cold loathing that only they induce — that strangely tender malice, at once so delicious and yet so purifying — the Yankees and their followers provide an emotional cleansing.” The former major leaguer and frequent contributor Doug Glanville wrote about Jessica Mendoza, the former softball player turned ESPN baseball commentator, last year. “I root for Mendoza’s success because her journey inspires me, and many others, to think optimistically about what we can overcome despite the stereotypes attributed to our demographic boxes.” Too often, the Steroid Era in baseball turned into a game of sanctimony and whodunit, distracting from the more important question of why we, as a culture, want our athletes comic-book pumped up and artificially enhanced.  In 2015, the Sonoma Stompers handed their baseball-operations department to a couple of stat-savvy writers with no baseball-management experience. One of the players they brought on ended up making history. 