This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. If yesterday was a typical summer Thursday in the United States, more than 100 people died in vehicle crashes.  They were killed because a drunken driver hit them. Or because a driver was texting rather than looking at the road. Or because they were hit by a speeding car. Or because they themselves were driving a vehicle unsafely. Or maybe nobody did anything wrong, and bad luck led to the crash.  Summer is the deadliest season on America’s roads, which are now the most dangerous in the industrialized world — a grim distinction that didn’t apply just a few decades ago.  Worst of all, we could prevent a significant number of these deaths if we were willing to try. We would simply need to do the things that other countries have already done, to great success: Install more speed cameras. Crack down on smartphone use by drivers, with real enforcement and penalties. Reduce the threshold for drunken driving. Increase seatbelt use.  Instead of taking these steps, however, we are fighting about the potential dangers of driverless cars.  “Americans have been shaken by crashes of driverless cars and their semiautonomous counterparts, two recent surveys show,” Ashley Halsey III of The Washington Post reports, “and consumer groups are pushing back against what they say is a flawed effort in Congress to regulate the vehicles.” I’m all in favor of careful regulation of driverless cars, and consumer groups are right to make sure that the auto industry won’t be regulating itself. The three deaths in driverless-car crashes over the past three years were tragic and alarming. Now is an important time too, because driverless cars are on the cusp of become more popular.  But the current mismatch between the attention to driverless cars and the attention to driver-operated cars is a big mistake. We’re acting as if the status quo is fine, and the only problem is some risky newfangled technology. In reality, the status quo is a public-health crisis, and a preventable one.  Today, another 100 or so Americans — many of them young and healthy — will likely die in human-driven vehicle crashes. Even more Americans are likely to die on Saturday, the deadliest day of the week on the roads. The terrible toll will continue every day after that, until we decide to do something about it. One group doing something about it: Families for Safe Streets, an advocacy group composed of people who have lost children or other relatives in fatal crashes. Amy Cohen and Dana Lerner, two mothers in the group, talk about their work in this video.  Turnout. “As favorable as the generational trends look for Democrats,” Adam Bonica, a Stanford political scientist, writes in a Times op-ed, “the potential gains from increasing turnout are even greater.” His piece comes with fascinating charts. You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).