In 2011, after years of resisting, I finally signed up for Twitter. I did it to promote a “Jeopardy!” match I was appearing on, against IBM’s supercomputer Watson. It was a crash course in the brutal realities of social media. Nobody cared about my promotional hype or behind-the-scenes trivia, but when I tweeted a dumb joke based on a then-topical Kanye meme: A bigger number of people saw it than anything else I’d been doing. I was astonished. The short-attention-span jolt of Twitter is perfect for a few specialized things: breaking news, viral links — and presidential hissy fits. But above all, it turns out, Twitter is perfect for jokes. I was quickly hooked. Rookies like me could joke around with real-life comedy professionals. And it was a writing clinic too — an easygoing democracy and a strict meritocracy where professional comedy writers and stand-ups could riff alongside random civilians. As a child, when I heard jokes and watched sitcoms, I considered comedy to be a wonderful, ineffable mystery — like sex, or the Trinity. But the joke formats and memes of social media are training wheels, template-izing comedy for beginners. It’s impossible to look through the microscope at the comedy petri dish all day and not start to pick up on its rhythms and mechanics. For better or for worse, we’re all becoming comedy writers now, in a writer’s room the size of a planet. A Twitter habit, like any other internet addiction, is an endless dopamine loop. Your brain doesn’t have a satiety signal for social media updates; it just wants you to check your screen again and again for new content until you die.  But for comedy nerds, Twitter adds another addictive element: gamification. Every time I take out my phone, I can see with numerical precision exactly how funny (or unfunny) my last joke was. Earlier this year, I tweeted this:   I had no idea if that was a relatable observation. Were my kids the only ones in America leaving sparkling water cans all over the house? The tweet was a mild hit for me, so apparently there was something universal there. But my series of “ALF Facts” photos — fake trivia about 1980s sitcom alien ALF taken from his DVD packaging — really petered out.  “ALF Facts” were hilarious to me but, apparently, not that many other people.  Once Joke Twitter had warped my brain and increased my comedy awareness, I started seeing a rising tide of comedy everywhere. Airlines were putting visual gags in their safety demonstration videos. Church marquees were now corny puns, not Bible verses. Nearly every big-bucks Super Bowl commercial was an absurdist comedy sketch, with ad agencies all hoping to out-weird the others and go viral. We were getting our news, obviously, from comedy shows.  For most of human history, laughter and comedy were scarce resources in bleak times. The more the better! But that’s not remotely true anymore. I have thousands of hours of comedy waiting for me on streaming video, essentially free, that I will probably never watch. Hundreds of jokes are scrolling through my Twitter feed every hour. This crazy overabundance, I’m now convinced, has not been a net good for me. First, there’s the problem that psychologists call the “hedonic treadmill.” More and more of a pleasurable thing, it turns out, doesn’t actually make us happier. It just makes us enjoy each new stimulus a little less. I don’t “lol” at funny texts and tweets anymore, for the most part, not even when I type “lol” in reply. My highest amusement level now is nodding sagely and saying “That’s funny” in a very serious voice. And the mild buzz of seeing followers like, retweet and riff on a good joke is never worth the soul-destroying gloom of watching Twitter turn on you. When I’m just getting yelled at by lone crusaders with a pet peeve, or people from across the political aisle outraged (or at least “outraged”) about a President Trump joke, that’s unpleasant enough. But what’s really bad is to get pilloried and have it coming, when a joke that made sense in my head turned out to be incomprehensible and awful on the screen. To try to add a joke to a world already too full of jokes, and to do it so ineptly that someone was hurt or insulted — what could be worse than that? There’s no way to escape our new comedy-first culture; there doesn’t even seem to be an alternative anymore. When comic irony is synonymous with hipness, any other sensibility, whether it’s religious solemnity or emo-style earnestness, just seems stodgy and out of touch by comparison. Perhaps that’s the worst part of my Twitter joke habit: it’s changing who I am in real life. My snarky repartee is smoother than ever, but in situations when a more heartfelt connection is required, I find that I’m a little out of my element. Those aren’t emotional muscles that we exercise as much anymore.  Part of me wants to opt out of the social media dopamine loop altogether. But my hedonic treadmill is turned up so high that it’s hard to make the leap. Real life seems drab now, compared to the high-speed barrage of ironic banter online. It’s the dream of my sitcom-watching childhood come true: nothing but punch lines as far as the eye can see. Ken Jennings is the author, most recently, of “Planet Funny: How Comedy Took Over Our Culture.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 