On the morning I left my husband and moved out of our apartment, I saw a giant birds’ nest tear apart, fall from the tree branch and crash down onto the pavement. The nest belonged to the green monk parakeets that lived down the street in a honey locust tree, where they spent their days chattering, grooming one another and weaving twigs, string and plastic bags into a basketlike housing complex as long and wide as a bicycle. On this day, the nest suddenly ruptured; half of it plummeted into the street. I came running. Overhead in the trees, the parakeets screamed and screamed. As I rolled the nest gently over the curb onto the grass, cars swerved around us. I broke the nest open with my hands, breathing in a lungful of filth and feathers, searching for nestlings, eggs, anybody trapped inside. But the nest was empty. Everybody had gotten out in time. No one was hurt. When I checked the trees an hour later, the parakeets had moved on. And I picked up my bags and moved into my newly rented rooms, abandoning my home. The Victorian critic John Ruskin coined the phrase “pathetic fallacy” to describe the morbid attribution of human feelings to animals and inanimate objects. According to Ruskin, an artist’s skillful deployment of such imagery could yield insight into the human condition. What he objected to was sloppy, overwrought language that depicted both nature and emotion untruthfully and unbeautifully. “It is a fallacy caused by an excited state of feelings, making us, for the time, more or less irrational,” he wrote. “All violent feelings have the same effect. They produce in us a falseness in all our impressions of external things.” After the separation, I was afraid of appearing irrational, violent, pathetic and fallacious, revealing what Ruskin called “a mind and body in some sort too weak to deal fully with what is before them or upon them; borne away, or overclouded, or over-dazzled by emotion.” So I couldn’t dwell on the parakeets’ cries over their shattered nest, or the heartbreak and toil of building a new one. To imagine how and why their home had ripped in two might just overcloud me with despair. Instead, I thought about crabs. I had recently learned that in springtime, the shorelines of southern New York City, from Plumb Beach to Big Egg Marsh, teem with thousands of horseshoe crabs that crawl ashore with the evening high tide to spawn. I thought about horseshoe crabs’ daily lives for the past 445 million years, their routines based on tides and seasons, regular and impersonal. A female horseshoe crab, dragging herself onto the sand to deposit 4,000 green eggs, was not looking askance at the nearest male crab and asking how her life might have been different if she’d washed up in a different part of Brooklyn. She wasn’t asking herself what would happen if no baby crabs resulted, or whether this situation, this male, this sacrifice of offspring were worth it, for the sake of a partnership no more permanent than the detritus washed in on the tide. I’m not a nature person. I’m afraid of butterflies, caterpillars, lakes and outhouses. When I downloaded a night sky map to my phone, I couldn’t even find the moon on it. But I keep worrying about nature; it’s out there, like Everest, tempting me to identification and discovery. And banality. In the last days before the separation, I’d escaped to the refuge of a writing retreat in Southern California, where the previous winter’s torrential rains had stimulated a springtime superbloom of desert wildflowers. My friends, the sympathetic and the snarky alike, asked me, “Are you ‘going to the desert’ to find yourself?” No, no, nothing so pathetic, I’d protested. Jesus, guys. What my hiking partner and I found instead were acres of wildflowers that opened at dawn, as the sunlight peeked into the canyons. We walked among cactuses of every shape and size, with cuddly names like teddy bear, foxtail and hedgehog; we found quails, swifts, lichens, beetles, noon sky-colored lizards, waxy, sticky yucca blossoms and spikes of chia that caught on the ribs of our socks. In the superbloom, thirst and wonder subordinated all violent emotion. If the thought of love ever brushed up against me, I didn’t cry, because tears were wasted in the desert. Later, behind the retreat house, I spotted a fragment of rose quartz — not unlike the “positive love vibe” crystals I’d scoffed at in the Museum of Broken Relationships gift shop a few days before — and furtively carried it away. “The poet has to speak of the earth in sadness, but he will not let that sadness affect or change his thoughts of it,” Ruskin wrote. “These are the facts of the thing. I see nothing else than these. Make what you will of them.” Ruskin’s problem wasn’t with metaphors, of nature or of the self, without which, perhaps, we couldn’t think or even love. He hated the feeble, insistent, bad metaphor that constrains and distorts our understandings of ourselves, nature and all other possibilities. Nature spawns not metaphor, but metaphors, so that an explosion of bloom, an army of crabs or a parakeet colony can overwhelm, dizzy and, finally, relieve the mind through sheer variety of fact and detail. A desert ghost flower might bloom, wither in drought or wildfire, or be devoured by caterpillars — and so might I. If home, marriage and love are metaphoric conventions, they might evoke the tree that I revisited, come summertime, to find that the parakeets had moved back in, rebuilt and reclaimed their home. Or, they might be narratives from which I might break free, like a crab molting its shell, a seed floating on a freshet, a lizard jettisoning its tail to escape. There’s nothing inevitable about either nature or language, a brittlebush’s life or mine.  WHEN I return to the Mojave months later, I am, in fact, trying to find myself, through a haze of illness, trauma and loneliness. I don’t expect flowers in winter, but on my first hike I discover that all the little cactuses have also vanished from the cold, stony earth. I take this personally. I try telling myself they’re just dormant. They’re resting. They will come back, in spring, rainfall permitting. I bury my disappointment in the annual Joshua tree bird count, because counting is systematic and therapeutic. Bird ignoramus that I am, I’m paired with an eagle-eyed National Park employee who, for the length of our six-hour hike, abides my frantic cries of “There’s a bird!” and, sometimes, just “Bird?” “No, squirrel,” she says, more than once. I watch her count: red-shafted flicker. Rufous-sided towhee. Sagebrush sparrow. Verdin. Cactus wren. Phainopepla. Blue-gray gnatcatcher. Ruby-crowned kinglet. Following the movements of her binoculars that scan horizon, bush, movement and shadow, I start seeing the birds and words bursting out of nowhere. I go back to the retreat house exhausted and baffled. I feel solace in having my vision confounded by her exact knowledge: There exists so much more than I had apprehended. I lie awake all night, comforted, through my first desert rainstorm, then go for a run through a landscape of washed, furze-bright grasses, where, in a channel cut into the clay, another fragment of rose quartz glimmers, begging to be picked up, to offer me another chance.