This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. American politics have become more racialized over the last decade. Over the long term, that trend will probably help the Democrats — the party of the country’s growing demographic groups. In the short term, though, it presents some real risks.  First, a little history: The Obama presidency started the new era of racialized politics. And it wasn’t because of Barack Obama’s actions. Academic research has found that he talked about race less often than any president since — get this — Franklin D. Roosevelt. But the mere fact that Obama was black made voters think more about race.  In particular, many white Americans felt threatened by both his election and the country’s increasing diversity. Then along came Donald Trump, a man with a decades-long history of racism. Trump ran the most race-obsessed campaign in decades, probably since George Wallace’s in 1968. When Trump’s campaign was over, he had won the White House, thanks largely to a surge in white support across the upper Midwest, the Florida panhandle and elsewhere. Trump and other top Republicans have made clear that they plan to continue their racialized strategy. They evidently think it’s their best chance to win elections. Cynical as their approach is, they may be right.  About 68 percent of the voting-age citizen population is white non-Hispanic, according to the Census Bureau. That, clearly, is a lot of people. And when white people are frequently reminded of their racial identity, they tend to become more politically conservative, as Ezra Klein explains in a new Vox piece, “White threat in a browning America.” I think the Democrats are favored to retake the House this year and the White House in 2020, as I wrote yesterday. But if you asked me to name the biggest risk to the party, I’d say it’s the possibility that the country will spend the next three months (or three years) fighting about hot-button cultural issues. Nate Cohn’s latest analysis of the midterms in The Times makes a similar point.  Yet despite the risks of racialized politics for the Democratic Party, it often finds itself incapable of de-emphasizing the issue. Confronting the Republicans’ racism can be a moral necessity. It’s also understandably important to the Democrats’ multiethnic coalition. “The Democratic Party will not be able to win elections without an excited, diverse coalition. The Republican Party will not be able to win elections without an enthused white base,” Klein writes. “Democrats will need to build a platform that’s even more explicit in its pursuit of racial and gender equality, while Republicans will need to design a politics even more responsive to a coalition that feels itself losing power.” But an inescapable reality remains: Not only are roughly two in three potential voters non-Hispanic whites, but these whites vote more often than nonwhites.  So what should Democrats do? I think that they should avoid wishing away the risks — that they should understand when they must take on Republicans (on voting rights and police brutality, for example) and when engaging isn’t worth the political cost (on debates like the N.F.L.’s national-anthem policy and whether to abolish I.C.E., which are, in my view, largely symbolic). Race-conscious politics aren’t going away. But they shouldn’t always be intensified, either. “The single most enduring fact of postwar politics,” the progressive strategist Kenneth Baer tweeted this week, is that “Dems win nat’l elections on eco/social welfare; GOP on cult/national” issues.  Manafort trial. The trial of Paul Manafort, Trump’s former campaign chairman, is set to begin this morning in Virginia. It centers on charges that he committed tax fraud and bank fraud. A second trial, in September, will deal with Manafort’s alleged money laundering and failure to register as a foreign agent while lobbying on behalf of the Ukrainian government. The accusations are largely separate from Manafort’s work on the Trump campaign. But it will be interesting to see whether we learn anything during the trial about the apparent collusion between Russia and the campaign. The Times’s Sharon LaFraniere and Emily Baumgaertner have a preview of the trial. You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).