Included in nearly all the commentary about the Supreme Court’s 2017-18 term was the observation that this was the year that Justice Anthony M. Kennedy took a decided turn to the right. For the first time in memory, there was not a single case in which the current court’s longest-serving justice, who announced his retirement on the term’s final day in June, joined the court’s four liberals to make a 5-to-4 majority.  Considering Justice Kennedy’s recent record, along with the indisputably conservative credentials of the man President Trump has chosen to replace him, it’s tempting to shrug and wonder what the fuss over Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination is about, or to assume that not much will change when he’s confirmed. After all, isn’t the Supreme Court’s future already here? That we are in for years — decades, perhaps — of conservative dominance on the Supreme Court there is little doubt. But I want to frame a different question about the court’s future. What will that conservatism look like? What does a conservative future really mean? It’s going on 50 years since Warren E. Burger, President Richard Nixon’s chosen chief justice and the first of his four Supreme Court appointees, took his seat in June 1969, initiating the turn to the right that continues to this day. Admittedly, it’s been a fitful journey rather than a steady march. Different expressions of conservatism have been on display, including the states-rights revival under Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist; the “originalism” of Justice Antonin Scalia and, currently, the grumpy the-prosecution-is-never-wrong-and-the-government-is-always-right jurisprudence of Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr.  Against this backdrop, I want to focus on Justice Clarence Thomas and specifically on the record he compiled during the past term. There is something almost discordant about including Justice Thomas in a discussion of “the future” because his highly personal and eccentric jurisprudence would take the court and the Constitution hurtling backward into the past.  That’s no great revelation. He has long insisted that the only legitimate way to interpret a constitutional provision is to give it the “public meaning” it supposedly had at the time it was written. So in 2011, for example, he dissented from a majority opinion written by Justice Antonin Scalia that struck down, on First Amendment grounds, a California law that made it a crime to sell a “violent” video game to a minor without parental permission. “The founding generation,” Justice Thomas wrote in dissent, “would not have considered it an abridgment of ‘the freedom of speech’ to support parental authority by restricting speech that bypasses minor’s parents.” While Justice Thomas’s unyielding view of originalism has been evident since he took his seat on the court 27 years ago, his output in the most recent term was little short of astonishing. In a term that produced only 59 signed opinions, I counted six important and long-enduring precedents that Justice Thomas would have wiped off the books as inconsistent with the original understanding.  He set out his arguments in two dissenting opinions as well as in separate concurring opinions, of which he wrote by far the most of all the justices — 15, compared with Justice Sonia Sotomayor’s second highest, seven. One dissent was from a decision in which the court handed a rare victory to immigrants, holding that the statutory definition of a “crime of violence” for which a noncitizen could be deported was unconstitutionally vague. The longstanding “vagueness doctrine” derives from the court’s understanding of the constitutional guarantee of due process. The court has applied it for a century, but for Justice Thomas, that wasn’t long enough. “The modern vagueness doctrine,” he wrote, “which claims the judicial authority to strike down vague legislation on its face, did not emerge until the turn of the 20th century.” He said he doubted that the doctrine was “consistent with the original meaning of the Due Process Clause.”  In another case, Justice Thomas reiterated his vigorous and longstanding objection to the “negative” Commerce Clause. This is a doctrine that dates at least to the mid-19th century, prohibiting states from discriminating against out-of-state enterprises in favor of their own residents. It is based on the court’s “negative” interpretation of the Commerce Clause, which empowers the national government to regulate interstate commerce and so, by extrapolation, deprives the states of that power. The court has applied it dozens of times over many years as a bulwark against a feared “Balkanization” of the country. But it is not, as Justice Thomas has frequently pointed out, actually in the Constitution’s text. His latest attack came in this term’s decision that freed states to tax internet sales. It was not a negative Commerce Clause case as such, and Justice Thomas concurred with the majority that the time had come to depart from the “physical presence” requirement the court had previously adhered to. But he couldn’t resist a one-paragraph concurring opinion that underscored his rejection of “this court’s entire negative Commerce Clause jurisprudence.”  Continuing this pattern, Justice Thomas took aim in another solo concurring opinion at the court’s approach to what is known as severability, which dates to the 1850s. Under this doctrine, when the court finds that a portion of a statute is unconstitutional, it goes on to decide whether that portion is severable from the remainder of the law or whether the entire statute has to fall. The question is one of legislative intent: Would Congress have enacted the law without the offending provision? This was an important question in the first Affordable Care Act case and in the past term’s decision that permitted states to authorize sports gambling. A provision of a federal statute, the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act, prohibited states from authorizing sports gambling. Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr.’s majority opinion, invalidating that provision under principles of federalism, held that Congress would not have wanted the remainder of the law to remain on the books without the invalidated prohibition.  In his concurring opinion, Justice Thomas agreed that the provision was unconstitutional. But “early American courts did not have a severability doctrine,” he said, and “our modern severability precedents are in tension with longstanding limits on the judicial power.” Although “no party in this case has asked us to reconsider these precedents,” he concluded, “at some point, it behooves us to do so.” Justice Thomas’s shortest concurring opinion, a three-sentence paragraph, came in a Texas voting rights case in which the 5-to-4 majority reinstated congressional and legislative districts that a lower federal court had invalidated as racially discriminatory. Justice Thomas agreed with Justice Alito’s majority opinion, which held in part that the Texas Legislature had not, as the plaintiffs claimed, violated Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act. “I adhere to my view that Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 does not apply to redistricting,” Justice Thomas wrote, joined by Justice Neil Gorsuch. “Thus, Section 2 cannot provide a basis for invalidating any district.” He offered two provocative critiques of core doctrines interpreting the Fourth Amendment, the prohibition of unreasonable searches and seizures. Under the Supreme Court’s “exclusionary rule,” first announced in 1914 and applied to the states in 1961 (and substantially narrowed since then by important exceptions), evidence obtained in violation of the Fourth Amendment is excluded from trial. Justice Thomas concurred in an opinion by Justice Sotomayor holding that the police ordinarily need a warrant to search a car parked in the area around someone’s home. (The lone dissenter from this decision was Justice Alito.)  To Justice Sotomayor’s 14-page majority opinion, Justice Thomas attached a nine-page concurring opinion, agreeing with the Fourth Amendment analysis while attacking the exclusionary rule in general and its application to the states in particular. “The Founders would not have understood the logic of the exclusionary rule,” he wrote, adding, “The exclusionary rule appears nowhere in the Constitution, postdates the founding by more than a century, and contradicts several longstanding principles of the common law.” He said “the assumption that state courts must apply the federal exclusionary rule is legally dubious,” and urged the court to revisit the entire issue. In a second Fourth Amendment case, Justice Thomas dissented from a majority opinion by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. that the government needs a warrant in order to search the cellphone location records that wireless carriers automatically collect and store as their phone-carrying customers go about their daily business. In deciding that the government’s acquisition of these records was a search within the meaning of the Fourth Amendment, the majority applied the 50-year-old “reasonable expectation of privacy” test, which does not depend on the government’s physical entry onto a suspect’s property.  That test is mistaken, Justice Thomas argued. “At the founding, ‘search’ did not mean a violation of someone’s reasonable expectation of privacy.” He added, “The word ‘privacy’ does not appear in the Fourth Amendment (or anywhere else in the Constitution for that matter).” He declared that Katz v. United States, the 1967 decision that adopted the test, was a “failed experiment” that “this court is duty bound to reconsider.” I have saved my favorite Thomas opinion for last: the concurrence in the chief justice’s opinion in the case that upheld Trump’s “Muslim Ban,” Trump v. Hawaii. “Merits aside,” he wrote, “I write separately to address the remedy that the plaintiffs sought and obtained in this case.” The Federal District Court in Hawaii, in an opinion upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, had imposed a nationwide injunction against the ban’s enforcement. “I am skeptical that district courts have the authority to enter universal injunctions,” Justice Thomas wrote. “These injunctions did not emerge until a century and a half after the founding.” They were once rare, he said, “but recently, they have exploded in popularity.” He concluded: “In sum, universal injunctions are legally and historically dubious. If federal courts continue to issue them, this court is duty bound to adjudicate their authority to do so.” Why do I call this opinion my favorite? Justice Thomas, I’m willing to assume — as I do of all members of the Supreme Court — is a man of high principle. Yet I searched his concurring opinion in vain for a citation to a nationwide injunction issued three years ago by a federal district judge in Texas and upheld by the Supreme Court in June 2016 on a 4-to-4 tie vote. The case was United States v. Texas. The subject was President Barack Obama’s proposed Deferred Action for Parents of Americans program, known as DAPA, granting temporary deferral of deportation to the parents of the young “Dreamers” who had received protection under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, DACA. The district court not only found in favor of the states that had challenged DAPA but, over the Obama administration’s objections, gave the injunction nationwide scope. The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit upheld the injunction on a 2-to-1 vote. In the spring of 2016, Justice Scalia had died and had not yet been replaced. A 4-to-4 tie at the Supreme Court upholds the lower court’s judgment without an opinion and without identifying which justices are on which side. There is no doubt which side Justice Thomas was on. If he had any problem with a nationwide injunction then, he kept that to himself, rather than join the four liberal justices to make a 5-to-3 decision overturning the injunction. Taken individually, the opinions I’ve discussed here may seem quite technical and rather unremarkable. Taken as a whole, as the work of a single justice during a single Supreme Court term, they paint an extraordinary picture of a judge at war not only with modernity but with the entire project of constitutional law.  Is this the future of the Supreme Court? That’s not my argument. Notably, in nearly all these cases, Justice Thomas spoke only for himself. And I have no reason to suppose that Brett Kavanaugh would follow in these footsteps. My purpose is simply to take issue with the notion that given the court’s strikingly conservative 2017-18 term, we have already seen the future. That’s far too easy a conclusion from the available evidence. There is a very long game being played here. Young people graduating from law school today have never lived in a world in which Clarence Thomas was not on the Supreme Court. The very fact of his position and his persistence makes opinions that would have been hooted out of the room a few decades ago look respectable in many eyes. In 1997, in Printz v. United States, he was the first modern justice to assert that the Second Amendment guarantees an individual right to own a gun, and to invite anyone interested to bring the right case to a Supreme Court newly open for Second Amendment business. It took a mere 11 years, and we were handed District of Columbia v. Heller.  A month ago, ThinkProgress published an essay by Ian Millhiser with the title “Clarence Thomas Is the Most Important Legal Thinker in America.” I did a double take. How could the estimable Mr. Millhiser sign his name to such an exaggerated claim? But his argument was not that Justice Thomas, who recently turned 70, is winning victories today, but that he is paving the way for victories down the road — and perhaps not all that far down the road. Observing that 20 percent of Trump-appointed appeals court judges are Justice Thomas’s former law clerks, Mr. Millhiser wrote, “Thomas lost the war for the present, but he is the future of legal conservatism.” So no, the court’s future is not already here, not yet. Those of us on the progressive side of the street are unlikely to look back on Justice Kennedy’s final term with nostalgia. But soon enough, we may decide that it was the best we’re going to see for a long time. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.