The Democratic Party is a traditional political organization dedicated to winning elections. It is also a social justice movement, the political home of societal change.  The party has often been further out front on these issues than the public at large — and than many of its own voters. This has empowered the Republican Party, from Richard Nixon to Donald Trump, to capitalize on opposition to a range of liberal Democratic initiatives on immigration, busing, women’s rights, abortion, crime, gay rights, gun control, affirmative action and so on.  The Democratic Party’s commitment to newly ascendant — and often assertive — constituencies has alienated some middle and working class voters who see their own values and interests downgraded.  Stan Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, voiced this critique in an analysis of the 2016 election:  The Democrats have moved from seeking to manage and champion the nation’s growing immigrant diversity to seeming to champion immigrant rights over American citizens’.  While whites are a declining share of voters, they still constitute 60 percent of the Democratic Party, according to Gallup. Data provided by Pew Research shows that whites were 74 percent of all voters in 2016. David Hopkins, a political scientist at Boston College, responding to my inquiry about the dual role of the Democratic Party, made a point related to Greenberg’s, but approached it from a different angle: Many citizens can simultaneously take a liberal position on one or more individual cultural issues and still believe more generally that the liberal vision requires changing the country too much or too quickly. Hopkins noted that  it is only natural that such massive social changes have caused anxiety, alienation, or anger among a significant proportion of the population — and liberals who fixate on the elements of their agenda that remain unfulfilled can sometimes be insensitive to the substantial degree of change that has already occurred over what is, historically speaking, a short amount of time. The tension between the center and the fervent anti-corporate, anti-Wall Street wing of the party — Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and now Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez — has amplified intraparty conflict. While some centrist Democrats and organizations with which they are allied view economic populists as an electoral liability, they are, among other things, crucial to keeping within the Democratic fold a bloc of voters who can drift in small but significant numbers to third-party candidates, like Jill Stein in 2016 and Ralph Nader in 2000, who arguably prevented Democratic candidates from winning the presidency.  While both parties are penalized for their internal divisions, there is some evidence that cultural and economic strains present particular challenges for Democrats.  The NBC/Wall Street Journal Poll has regularly asked a random selection of all voters whether Democratic and Republican candidates “are generally in the mainstream of most Americans’ thinking, or are generally out of step with most Americans’ thinking.”   From 2016 to 2018, the percentage of voters describing Democratic candidates as “in the mainstream” fell from 48 percent to 33 percent. The percentage describing Democratic candidates as “out of step with most Americans’ thinking” rose from 42 percent to 56 percent. Over the same period, the evaluation of Republican candidates remained virtually unchanged, 59 percent “out of step” in 2016 and 56 percent in 2018; 31 percent “in the mainstream” in 2016, 33 percent in 2018. In other words, over the past two years voters have become substantially more distrustful of the Democratic Party.  I asked political scientists who study political parties for their evaluation of the dual function of the Democratic Party. Their responses varied widely. Ryan Enos, a political scientist at Harvard, wrote back to say that one “problem the party seems to have is that it can’t accommodate all social justice demands at once.” In the 1960s and 1970s, the party became “an advocate for urban areas and racial minorities,” Enos argued, but then slowly, over time, it has become less of an advocate for rural areas, union members, and other things associated with the white working class. This left a portion of the social justice agenda on the table for another party to capture and part of that capture was the election of Trump. Morris Fiorina, a political scientist at Stanford and the author of “Culture War? The Myth of a Polarized America,” expressed his substantial agreement in an email: In my father’s time the modern Democratic Party emphasized reducing economic inequality — making working people better off. Over time the relative emphasis shifted as the importance of inclusiveness/diversity/identity grew. This happened in concert with the rise of a ‘new class’ that was relatively more economically secure and obviously created a more divisive agenda. Fiorina drew my attention to the book “Rights Talk: The Impoverishment of Political Discourse,” by Mary Ann Glendon, a law professor at Harvard, who, he said, argued  that making so many policy issues into matters of rights and taking them to the courts was counterproductive. It put opponents in the position of denying other people their rights. The latter are more difficult to compromise because if it’s a right, compromise is an abrogation of it. Fiorina pointed to the anger my working class steelworker friends expressed about the concept of “welfare rights.” Welfare is charity; no one has a right to it was their view. This was the transformation of an issue that previously would have been seen as an economic redistribution issue into what would be considered a social justice issue. Fiorina’s example shows how what can be seen as “rights” for one constituency can be seen as “costs” for another.  Fiorina cited the results of the 2016 Voter Study Group Survey of 8000 adults to argue that Democratic elites have adopted a set of issue priorities that are significantly different from those of all voters.  The Voter Study Group identifies 15 percent of voters who fit into what it calls the Democratic-Independent Liberal Elite category. This is the cohort that has often provided leadership for the social justice movement within the Democratic Party. Members of this group have generally been younger, more liberal, better educated and more affluent than average voters. When asked to rank issue priorities, there were some striking differences between these more liberal Democrats and the average voter. According to the survey, issues that the Democratic elite gave much higher priority to than the electorate at large included gay rights, 61.0 to 34.3; gender equality, 68.7 to 35; and racial equality, 65.7 to 38.8. Conversely, the issues given much higher priority by all voters than by Democratic elites included terrorism, 58.2 percent to 11.6 percent; crime, 57.4 to 18.2; taxes, 56.9 to 18.9; budget deficit, 50.7 to 5.3; religious liberty, 48.5 to 21.7; and immigration, 46.1 to 16.7. To put it bluntly, there is a huge gulf between the priorities of the Democratic elite, which exercises significant influence over party policymaking, and the general public.  In light of Fiorina’s comments, I asked Glendon for her views. Glendon is concerned about what she views as an overreliance on legalistic rights talk:  I would describe the evolution of the Democratic Party a little differently. From the 1930s to the early 60s, I think Mike Dukakis once described it best as the party of the workingman, families and the neighborhood. This, Glendon wrote, “was the Party when my father became the first Irish Catholic to be elected chairman of the board of selectmen in Dalton, Mass.” Then, in the 1960s, came the Party dedicated to ending segregation and affording equal opportunities to all. That was the Party to which I enthusiastically belonged. I would also say it was the party of true liberals, men and women who were tolerant, open, and not too sure they were right.  Soon, however, the party left all three of those features behind: it became the party of the radically autonomous individual, the party of top-down solutions, and sadly a party that would not even listen to dissent on certain issues. In one of her most recent essays, “The Universal Declaration Turns 70,” written with Seth D. Kaplan, a lecturer at Johns Hopkins, Glendon argues that in the United States, The overreliance on rights and courts to solve disputes has encouraged a focus on the individual at the expense of investment in the social fabric, and a winner-takes-all attitude at the expense of tolerance and compromise. The result, she and Kaplan argue, is that “the social ecosystem comprising the social capital, social networks, experiences in self-governance, and democratic norms upon which a free society depends has suffered.” These have been consistent themes in Glendon’s work. Back in 1991, in “Rights Talk,” she wrote: A tendency to frame nearly every social controversy in terms of a clash of rights (a woman’s right to her own body vs. a fetus’s right to life) impedes compromise, mutual understanding, and the discovery of common ground. A penchant for absolute formulations promotes unrealistic expectations and ignores both social costs and the rights of others. Speaking for myself, my support for the civil rights movement is unequivocal and long standing. I have, however, written extensively about the challenges that issues of race, rights and immigration pose for the Democratic Party. In 1991, I wrote in “Chain Reaction,” that “much of the Democratic Party elite — particularly the highly educated ‘new class’ elite,” found itself “unable to acknowledge the political and social costs of the liberal agenda.”  Under political siege,  Democratic liberalism became unreceptive, if not hostile, to new, contradictory and sometimes frightening information. The public repudiation of racism and the stigmatization of overtly racist expression was a groundbreaking achievement of the 1960s and 1970s. The repudiation of racist expression had an unintended consequence, however, for liberalism and for much of the Democratic Party: an almost censorious set of prohibitions against discussion of family structure among the black poor, absent fathers, crime, lack of labor force participation, welfare dependency, illegitimacy and other contentious race-freighted issues. Matt Grossmann, a political scientist at Michigan State, noted this week in reply to my email that Democratic politicians are most often astute enough to avoid being trapped into an absolutist position: “When in power, liberals have been quite willing to compromise on the form and extent of policy for incremental tangible gains.”  But Grossmann went on to acknowledge, It is nonetheless true that Democrats are likely to be pushing for lots of individual social changes at once, many of which are individually popular but collectively look to the right and to the middle like a project to remake society, undermine traditions, subordinate domestic strength to global concerns, and make American culture less unique. Because Democrats have trouble prioritizing the laundry list of goals and don’t realize that individually popular goals — spur the economy, provide health coverage to those who need it — can become quite unpopular once they are combined and attacked as a big government project by liberal elitists. Alexander Theodoridis, a political scientist at the University of California-Merced, cited “Asymmetric Politics” by Grossmann and David Hopkins in response to my query. He paraphrased the Grossmann-Hopkins thesis as follows: “that the Republican Party is best described as an ideological group, while the Democratic Party is better thought of as a collection of interests.” This asymmetry, Theodoridis argues, leads to the fact that Republicans “tend to identify more powerfully with their party.” The nature of “the modern Democratic Party enterprise as a vehicle for various groups to pursue justice and equality” results, in turn, in a “patchwork coalition” in which “more extreme voices will emerge from the cacophony. And, these may, in fact, motivate their more traditional opponents.” Despite this, Theodoridis believes that the Republican Party has a bigger problem reining in the fringes. Perhaps because the G.O.P. is a proxy for an ideological dimension, rather than a coalition of diverse interests, it is more likely pulled to the edge of the ideological spectrum. While Republicans have clearly been pushed well to the right of center by their activist wing, the results of House and Senate elections in recent years suggest continued public reluctance to give Democrats control of Congress.  Since 1995, Republicans have held the majority in the Senate 15 years to the Democrats’ 9. Over the same period, Republicans have controlled the House 20 years to the Democrats’ 4. There is no way the Democratic Party would jettison the party’s social justice wing nor should it. The record does suggest, however, that Democrats need to do a better job of managing the conflict between the centrist corpus of the party and both of its activist left wings — one cultural, one economic — if it expects to fully capitalize on the opportunities that President Trump and his allies have bestowed on them. I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 