Recently I was fortunate enough to get out of town for a few days without work and without my child. I highly recommend it. Even if a vacation isn’t possible, cobbling together a visit to friends or family can be a soul-lifter. And soon I will get a break of another sort: My son and I are sharing a house with two other families near a Delaware beach. As experienced parents know, the presence of offspring makes this a trip and not a vacation. It is an opportunity to move all the responsibilities I have at home to a more dangerous location. I am sure it will be enjoyable — in an invigorating, can-we-keep-the-kids-alive sort of way. It’s the season for getaways of all sorts, so I am sharing some favorite pieces on summer breaks and vacations. If you can afford to get out of town, or just take a staycation, be sure to make the most of it — which can mean finding the time to do nothing at all. “The summer vacation is more than a quaint tradition. Along with family time, mealtime and weekends, it is an important way that we can make the most of our beautiful brains,” writes Daniel J. Levitin, a cognitive neuroscientist. “A wanton slumber on a hot afternoon offers the luxurious expanse of wasted time. The world can keep turning without us for a while.” Read the this meditative essay on vacations and the value of sleep and silence.  Do you really need to find the time to spend a whole week or more with your family? If you want to stay close, then yes, says the columnist Frank Bruni. There’s simply no substitute for physical presence. Getting real: For most parents, summer, that beloved institution, is a financial and logistical nightmare. The children are off from school, but the parents are still working, KJ Dell’Antonia writes. Why do we need to get out of town? Maeve Higgins provides an honest picture of summer in the city. It’s hard not to envy the vacations of the über-rich, but are they really having a better time? The writer Tony Perrottet considers the benefits and drawbacks of vacationing while wealthy. From the writer Joanne Spataro: “When my girlfriend, Lara, and I travel on the road, we have to take precautions. We’re constantly on guard against strangers. Lara is a transgender woman of color, and at rest stops I’m never far from her side, guarding her like a Secret Service agent.”  The cruel thing about vacations is that they end, notes the psychiatrist Richard A. Friedman. He has advice on having great, long-lasting experiences. My colleague Honor Jones asks: “What if I had taken all the money and enthusiasm I’d put into the past 10 years of vacations and devoted it, instead, to making my own life, the real one, a little bit better? What would that look like?”