Leslie Moonves is a rainmaker and a kingmaker. As the chief executive of CBS, he transformed the television network from last place to most watched. He’s made careers, and he has made a fortune, for himself and for his employer. And that’s probably why the CBS board decided to let him keep his job despite allegations in a recent exposé in The New Yorker that he sexually harassed women and helped foster a climate of harassment throughout the company. It’s a common reaction. When employers receive sexual harassment complaints, they most often try to keep them quiet or retaliate against the victim. They’re afraid that losing their stars will dim the company’s prospects. But corporate boards and managers need to wake up to the reality that sexual harassers, no matter how important they seem, do incredible harm to their companies. They desiccate a culture, draining employees’ motivation. They push qualified employees to leave. And they make their companies vulnerable to a backlash when the problems eventually come to light. It’s stupid, financially, to keep those men around. Employers might assume that for executives like Mr. Moonves, who attract important business and talent, the benefits outweigh any cost of the abusive behavior. But several recent studies show that keeping even a top-performing harasser is not worth it. A study from Harvard Business School looked at the impact of “toxic workers” — those whose behavior harms employees and companies — using data on more than 58,000 employees, from 11 different companies. It found that keeping such a worker, even one who is so productive that a company would have to hire more people to make up for letting him go, was an unwise wager. One toxic worker costs a company about $12,500 in employee turnover alone, yet on average added only about $5,300 to the business. And that doesn’t account for productivity losses or litigation fees. The price for victims of harassment is clear. In a study by three sociologists of survey and interview data of employed women in Minnesota, 80 percent of those who reported experiencing harassment said they had changed jobs two years later, and many also reported “greater financial stress.” That turnover costs companies, too. It’s expensive to recruit and train new employees: Replacing someone costs, on average, nearly $7,000 at an American company, according to research by Deloitte. Not all employees leave because of sexual harassment. For those who stay, the experience of harassment still harms the quality of work and productivity for those directly affected and for their co-workers. A 2007 review of research by two psychologists and a business school professor found that the most common reaction to experiencing harassment is to withdraw from work, neglecting tasks or simply calling in sick. An employer shoulders that burden, too. The reduction in productivity has been found to cost $22,500, on average, for each person affected by sexual harassment. There’s also the issue of public perception. Researchers at U.C.L.A. and the University of Amsterdam found, through a series of experiments, that a sexual harassment claim tarnishes an organization’s reputation, even more so than something like financial misconduct. Indeed, CBS stock was down 4.3 percent following publication of The New Yorker article. But the same research found that a company that responds to an allegation, rather than minimizing it, can nearly recover from the backlash. CBS appears to be a case study in how behavior at the top of a company can trickle down. Thirty current and former CBS employees interviewed by The New Yorker described a workplace environment of harassment and discrimination, where abusers were promoted, not investigated. (CBS told The New Yorker that its policy is to investigate all complaints.) Some of the behavior had surfaced even before the report about Mr. Moonves, including allegations against high-level employees at its news, entertainment and television divisions. The biggest predictor of harassment in the workplace, according to a landmark report from the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, is a toxic culture, including one that lets harassment slide. These realities clearly haven’t seeped into the collective corporate consciousness. CBS’s board had a clear opening to get rid of Mr. Moonves, at least temporarily, and alleviate the blowback and harmful culture he is accused of creating. Instead, the board decided to allow him to remain as chief executive while it conducted an investigation. While Mr. Moonves says he never misused his position of power, he admitted to some unwanted advances. Even if he is asked to leave, Mr. Moonves may very well get another shot. Mike Cagney, the chief executive of SoFi, an online lending company, left his job in September following questions about sexual misconduct, but just months later he is poised to lead a new company, with $58 million in venture capital backing. Travis Kalanick resigned as chief executive of Uber last June after a series of scandals involving accusations of sexual harassment and discrimination, but he has bought a controlling stake in another company and again assumed the position of chief executive. These men are not good bets. They are dead weight on a company’s bottom line. And the sooner employers realize that, the better. CBS may have made a mistake keeping Mr. Moonves around for so many years. It is almost certainly paying the price for it.