Do you want to optimize your life? Start your morning with a kale-garlic-ginger smoothie, or better yet, meditate and fast until noon. Next, hit the gym for your mixed martial arts workout and take a cold shower to activate your immune system. Then plan this summer’s vision quest: Maybe you’ll head to the jungles of Peru, where a shaman will brew you some mescaline-laced psychedelic tea — don’t worry; the intense nausea means you’re grasping new dimensions of reality.  Next, read a book on evolutionary psychology to remind yourself that you’re just a social primate with genetically programmed urges. Then read some Stoic philosophy to control those urges. Take ownership of your day and soon enough you’ll be a millionaire, running your own lifestyle coaching empire. On the surface, this is the message of a new generation of wellness gurus, a network of podcasters centered in the Austin, Tex., area and Southern California. Yes, they are easy to mock, and their gospel of health, wealth and contentment comes with the usual moral hazards: Too much faith in self-improvement glosses over structural injustices that place real limits on what’s possible for many people.  But over the past few years the podcasters have become a significant cultural phenomenon, spiritual entrepreneurs who are filling the gap left as traditional religious organizations erode and modernity frays our face-to-face connections with communities and institutions.  By my count, there are at least two dozen members of this podcast ecosystem. Their ranks include Joe Rogan, the tattooed, kale-drinking Ultimate Fighting Championship commentator and comedian; Tim Ferriss, champion of “The 4-Hour Workweek”; Aubrey Marcus, founder and chief executive of Onnit, a nutritional supplement company devoted to “total human optimization”; Lewis Howes, a former professional football player who now runs the School of Greatness — the list goes on.  They appear on one another’s shows and plug one another’s products, a vast marketplace of tough-yet-sensitive guy-chic and self-improvement. Their wares range from pomegranate white tea endorsed by a former Navy SEAL to men’s apparel made by “some of the finest artisans in Italy” and various protein powders, fat burners, multivitamins and brain-boosting “nootropics” that supposedly “support memory, focus and processing speed.”  The sales pitches can eat up slightly more airtime than ads for mattresses and grocery delivery services on other podcasts. But the main thing is the philosophy of personal development that goes with them — and it has won a huge following. Tim Ferriss told me his books have sold over four and a half million copies in North America alone. Several of these podcasters say they reach millions of listeners each month. In 2016, Joe Rogan put his figure “in the neighborhood of 30 million downloads per month”; his show is ranked second on the iTunes podcast chart, right behind Oprah’s. Don’t dismiss the podcast bros merely as hucksters promoting self-help books and dubious mushroom coffee. In this secularized age of lonely seekers scrolling social media feeds, they have cultivated a spiritual community. They offer theologies and daily rituals of self-actualization, an appealing alternative to the rhetoric of victimhood and resentment that permeates both the right and the left. “They help the masses identify the hole in the soul,” Karli Smith, 38, a fan who lives in Tooele, Utah, told me. “I do feel the message is creating a community.”  All this continues a long American tradition of self-help and creative, market-minded spirituality. The 19th century brimmed with gurus ready to guide you to other dimensions and prophets of the path from rags to riches. The podcasters’ exhortations to cultivate character and learn from the habits of successful businessmen, scientists and soldiers (whom they invite for interviews that sometimes stretch longer than two hours) could come straight from the pages of Victorian self-improvement manuals. When I asked Mr. Marcus about his admiration for his guests on the “Aubrey Marcus Podcast,” he said: “It’s self-mastery of the ego, knowing you have nothing to prove. That’s real strength, real masculinity.”  He and his colleagues update this old theme with a passion for the latest scientific (occasionally pseudoscientific) breakthroughs. Humans seem to be wired to seek salvation; even if polls suggest that more and more Americans reject traditional notions of God and skip church, it’s appealing to think that the latest lifestyle trend could be your path to existential bliss. The podcasters urge their listeners to experiment with fitness routines, diets, non-Western medicine, meditation and other “biohacks” to think more clearly, sleep more soundly and achieve professional success — and to quit blaming other people or bad luck for their problems.  Tim Ferriss has called himself a “human guinea pig” eager to try the latest brain supplement or fasting regimen, devoted to quizzing successful people in a range of professions on their own “tactics, routines, and habits.” Mr. Marcus’s new book, “Own the Day, Own Your Life,” has sold more than 110,000 copies and guides the reader through his routine and “pro tips,” from a morning glass of water mixed with sea salt and lemon, to taking up the didgeridoo to reduce sleep apnea (hey, a 2005 study suggests it works!). Underlying this taste for experimentation is a deeper interest in evolutionary biology and psychology: the genes that, some experts believe, leave us programmed for a brutal, tribal, even pre-human past despite the creature comforts of the present. “The evolutionary hangover is pretty real,” said Cory Allen, who hosts “The Astral Hustle,” a podcast focused on neuroscience and mindfulness. “We’re not ready for the nuances of modern society. Shedding light on why we react and respond in certain ways in certain situations will help alleviate those reactions over time.” Evolutionary psychology is the secular answer to the doctrine of original sin: a primordial explanation for the anxieties that haunt us even if we have a decent job and a functional family. “In our evolutionary past, anthropologists will tell you that humans lived in groups of 30 to 50 people, and everyone was needed to keep the ship afloat,” said Sebastian Junger, a war reporter who made the rounds on this podcast network to discuss his 2016 book “Tribe.” But modern society “required less participation by individuals,” he added. “Group obligations dropped out; all that’s left is freedom to pursue individualism.” We miss having a clear role in a tribe. Acknowledging our tribal inclinations doesn’t mean succumbing to them. On the rare occasions when these podcasters venture into the political realm, it’s usually to denounce populists and activists who capitalize on identity politics.  Most of the time, “The Joe Rogan Experience” consists of pleasantly rambling, profanity-laced conversations with Australian bowhunters, mixed martial arts fighters and celebrities like Steven Tyler, lead singer of Aerosmith. But one of Mr. Rogan’s “all-time favorite guests” is Jordan Peterson, the University of Toronto psychologist whose taste for political street fighting — mainly with the radical left — brought a wave of media attention, launched his best-selling self-help book, “12 Rules for Life” and made him a darling of the podcast bro circuit. In conversations with Mr. Peterson, Mr. Rogan disdained the “the social justice warrior brigade,” but also lamented President Trump’s failure to distance himself from white supremacists. Mr. Rogan has said he’s “mostly on the left.” What troubles him is “when people just ramp up their positions and get more ideologically based, and they’re doing it as a reaction to the other side instead of just being who they are, instead of having some sort of a personal sovereignty,” he said last year. (Mr. Rogan’s website sells T-shirts emblazoned with the political affiliation “Freak Party.”)  Tim Ferriss hit on some of the same themes on his podcast when he interviewed Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey. He grilled Mr. Booker on his career path but he seemed more interested in neutral advice for would-be activists rather than partisan politics. Mr. Booker called himself “a huge fan” of the show (he has taken up regular fasting on Mr. Ferriss’s recommendation), and repeatedly rebuked culture-wars polarization. “We’re at a point in our society right now where we have just stopped listening to each other, and stopped being empathetic,” Mr. Booker said.  This is the podcast bro ethos: Ditch your ideologically charged identity. Accept your evolutionary programming. Take responsibility for mastering it, and find a cosmic purpose. “I’m not saying it’s only personal responsibility that matters, but you have to start there,” Mr. Marcus told me. But wait — how does cutting down carbs and tossing kettlebells set me up to serve the universe? Here is where the podcast bros get metaphysical. Many have a strong interest in spirituality, and see practices like Buddhist meditation or consuming hallucinogenic “plant medicine” as not just a way to improve daily performance, but a path to something deeper. Their metaphysical tastes range from Carl Jung’s psychology to ancient Stoic philosophy, which calls for self-control and transcendence of material wealth. (Like Seneca himself, the podcasters manage to reconcile anti-materialism with their own financial success.)  Cory Allen — who told me that income from other projects, including his work in music production, supplements his more modest podcast operation — invites cognitive scientists, master shamans and shiatsu alchemists onto his show. He sees their spiritual discussions as a subtle kind of political intervention that might help people transcend their tribal programming. “If I could direct someone toward compassion that’s at a level of consciousness below their flighty political beliefs, from the bottom up, that could eventually get them to say, ‘Hey, I think Trump is causing a lot of suffering right now, and I don’t agree with him as much,’” he said. The common thread linking the podcasters’ interest in evolutionary psychology and their metaphysical dabbling is the quest to transcend the ego, and to overcome the idea that we are personally aggrieved by enemies wholly unlike ourselves. This means mistrusting ideology and identitarian politics. “I think having a one-world tribe, a tribe of human beings, period, is really what’s going to heal us for our next stage of life as a species on this planet,” said Mr. Marcus, whose spiritual interests include yoga, Toltec philosophy and hallucinogenic elixirs brewed by Amazonian shamans.  Some of these men realize that their collective identity as a bunch of financially comfortable white dudes undermines their cosmic universalism. Lewis Howes makes a point of inviting women and people of color onto his show, and featured a Muslim woman at his “Summit of Greatness” conference last year. “I know I’m only able to reach a certain number of people based on how I look and my experience,” he told me.  Patrina Lowrie, 31, a first lieutenant in the Army who grew up in Jamaica and listens to a few of these podcasts, said she finds their apolitical universalism refreshing. “I really believe it’s possible, this united tribe,” she told me. “We all have different personality backgrounds and traits, but I feel we can be one body.” As a Christian, she looks askance at their more unconventional spiritual practices, but she now starts her day like Mr. Marcus: a morning salt-and-lemon cocktail, burpees, meditation and a three-minute blast of cold water at the end of her shower.  The podcasts make her feel less lonely on her deployment in South Korea. “I’m listening throughout my day,” she said. “I feel sometimes, when I’m listening, that I’m actually in that space with them, even though I’m so far away.”  Other listeners I spoke to expressed a similar sense of connection: the podcasters’ meandering, two-hour interviews are a relief from the shallowness of social media. “It’s almost like they’re your friends. You’re listening to them all the time,” said Matt Miller, 25, a metallurgical engineer in Troy, N.Y., who writes summaries on Tim Ferriss, Joe Rogan and other podcasters for the website Podcast Notes. “They say you’re kind of the average of the five people you hang around most, so it’s my hope that by listening to them, some of their principles rub off on me.” Mr. Miller, who “used to be Catholic,” has found a sense of order in the daily liturgy that he now shares with millions of other podcast fans. Tim Ferriss inspired him to start meditating, and he’s become a devotee of fasting. “There’s a lot of talk of fasting on these podcasts, and I’ve incorporated that into my life. For the past month, I’ve just been eating one meal a day, and that’s a practice I’m going to stick to long-term.”  Is this a postmodern monastic order, passing on breakfast and shivering in the shower while pondering the next step in mastering the ego? These podcasters lead one of the largest quasi-spiritual self-help “denominations” in the United States. It is a far-flung virtual community that gives people solace, a regimen and a sense of like-mindedness at a time when churches and other old-fashioned institutions simultaneously seem to ask too much, yet also fail to provide many people with whatever they’re looking for. The podcasters’ rejection of culture-wars partisanship resonates at a time when many Americans have stopped participating in politics (every listener I spoke to avoids political media the way they avoid, well, non-kale smoothies). Yet podcasts are not churches. They are not political parties. They don’t patch over the existential void so much as reveal how avidly we yearn to fill it. “People need to have meaning, to be needed, and have a purpose in life,” said Mr. Junger. “If you live in a safe society with plenty of money, and you need something bigger than you to engage with, the shrine of the body and the temple of the mind, then go for it — you’ve got nothing else to do.”  The podcasters may offer a lesson to politicians and activists: to build a following, find a way to provide the sense of affiliation, daily rhythm and ultimate purpose that humans crave. Slogans of victimhood and grievance may rile up the base. But most people yearn, instead, for a sense of belonging and a path to mastery — even if it starts with a cold shower.  Molly Worthen (@MollyWorthen) is the author, most recently, of “Apostles of Reason: The Crisis of Authority in American Evangelicalism,” an associate professor of history at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, and a contributing opinion writer. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 