In June, when Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a Latina organizer, unseated Joe Crowley, one of the most powerful Democratic incumbents in the country, many analysts were shocked. But maybe they shouldn’t have been. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory came after she criticized Mr. Crowley regularly on the campaign trail for voting to establish the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency in 2002. She called for the agency to be abolished. And as she zeroed in on the brutality of immigration enforcement, she became a leader in the movement to abolish ICE, going so far as to spend the last few days of her campaign at the border bearing witness to the viciousness of America’s immigration system. While some saw this as a sign of her political weakness, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was tapping into a sharp shift in the way that Democrats understand immigration. In much the same way that the Democratic Party has had a reckoning on financial deregulation, the punitive 1994 crime bill and the callous welfare reforms of the mid-90s, incumbents are now facing criticism for their votes on immigration.  From the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act in 1996 to the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Democrats have voted overwhelmingly to help construct the apparatus that President Trump is using to engage in a campaign of mass deportation. And candidates like Ms. Ocasio-Cortez are forcing them to take those votes seriously. Ayanna Pressley, who is challenging another incumbent, Michael Capuano, in the Seventh Congressional District of Massachusetts, has also called for abolishing ICE. In Delaware, Kerri Evelyn Harris, running against Tom Carper, another incumbent who supported the creation of the agency, has too.  In Minnesota, Ilhan Omar, who wants to replace Keith Ellison, who is running for attorney general, notes that ICE is relatively new. “ICE’s mission was created in 2002 — they’ve only been around for 15 years,” she told me. “In that time, they have grown to be an agency whose mission is to tear families apart and put fear into immigrant, refugee and undocumented communities. ICE has only become increasingly militarized, brutal and unaccountable.” For her, the call to abolish ICE is a demand to create an immigration policy “based in compassion.”  Abolishing ICE is not only a campaign issue among upstarts in primaries in deep blue districts. Mark Pocan, a representative from Wisconsin who is a co-chairman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, said his concerns about ICE stem from the increasingly racist overtones of the agency’s enforcement priorities, “They’re trying to send every possible signal that there are people who don’t belong in this country, and it’s not people from Norway. This is being done almost exclusively on race. Sitting in the parking lot outside of a Head Start school is not for the security of the country.”  The energy behind the movement is coming from grass-roots immigration groups. These activists, frustrated by decades of deportations under both Republican and Democratic administrations, have been leading the call to abolish ICE. As Javier H. Valdés, an executive director of Make the Road Action, put it, “This agency is the prime culprit in driving Trump’s efforts to wipe our community off the map. It is fueled by hatred toward immigrants of color and completely unaccountable and nontransparent about its abuse of our people. It is a stain on this country’s democracy and should be abolished immediately.”  Antonio Alarcón, another member of Make the Road Action, told me, “We demand the elimination of an agency that keeps terrorizing our communities, that keeps separating families and putting our families in jails. As a Dreamer, I know what it’s like to live in fear, with your family, of ICE coming to knock on your door.”  For many of candidates running for office, sexual assault in ICE detention centers has been a motivation. After Gaby Del Valle reported on sexual assault in ICE detention for The Outline, one woman who spoke up was detained in solitary confinement. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has called for a congressional inquiry into sexual assault in ICE detention and a truth and reconciliation process for survivors of sexual assault.  My think tank, Data for Progress, which tracks the phrase “Abolish ICE” on Twitter, has seen a deep level of engagement on this issue. There has been a more than fivefold increase in tweets containing the phrase “abolish ICE” from the first five months of the year to June and July.  I have also analyzed Voter Study Group data, which provides some insight into why the movement to abolish ICE has taken hold among so many Democratic voters. The survey is a panel, meaning it interviews the same group of individuals at two points in time. I looked at white Democrats who identified as Democrats in both surveys. In 2011, 60 percent of white Democrats supported a path to citizenship, 24 percent were opposed and 16 percent weren’t sure. In 2016, 74 percent favored a path to citizenship, 16 percent were opposed and the rest didn’t know.    The Voter Study Group also asks respondents whether undocumented immigrants make a contribution to society or are a drain on it. In 2011, 40 percent of white Democrats said undocumented immigrants make a contribution, 16 percent said neither and 31 percent said “mostly a drain” (the rest were unsure). By 2016, 61 percent of white Democrats said undocumented immigrants made a contribution, 10 percent said neither and 22 percent said mostly a drain. The abolish ICE debate is a product of the way American policymaking has changed in our hyperpartisan age. Debates and dialogue hardly every occur across the aisle, but activists in each party form a collective vision, often when they are out of power, and implement it when they gain power. Though the Republican Party seems to think it can use the Abolish ICE movement against Democrats everywhere, the idea that it will provide a bludgeon in the midterm is a phantom. For one, ICE is rapidly losing popularity and political capital, with 49 percent of Americans expressing a positive view and 44 percent a negative view in recent Pew polling. That’s the lowest of any agency they examined. Even the I.R.S. has 57 percent positive views and 36 percent negative views. Data for Progress also commissioned a national survey from YouGov Blue. We asked respondents, “Would you support or oppose defunding Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and enforcing immigration violations like other civil infractions?” We found 32 percent of respondents in support and 38 percent opposed (with another 30 saying neither or they didn’t know). Half of Democrats supported defunding ICE (18 percent opposed) and among people under 45, 33 percent supported the idea and 27 percent opposed it. The abolish ICE movement is not just about the agency; it is also a demand that the next attempt to carry out comprehensive immigration reform doesn’t look like the last one. The next time Democrats have the power to change policy, they will have clear instructions from the base: a mandate to envision an immigration system centered on dignity. For as long as America has existed, the question of immigration has been defined through the lens of white supremacy, although that began to change with the Hart-Cellar Act in 1965. For the most part, though, we have seen immigrants as an other to be controlled and understood these “others” as a threat: of crime, of terror, of economic dislocation. Now, for the first time in American history, there is a possibility that we can build an immigration system that sees immigrants as something else: human.  Sean McElwee (@SeanMcElwee) is a co-founder of Data for Progress. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 