Justice is blind — or at least that’s the ideal. Across the United States, the law is administered by a million police officers and more than 30,000 state and federal judges. While these officials usually have good intentions, there’s increasing awareness of the role that racial and other biases often play in law enforcement decisions. What’s less well known is how idiosyncratic factors can shape how people are treated. For example, in France and the United States, a study showed that judges give shorter sentences when defendants show up to court on their birthdays. Judges are also less likely to grant asylum to a refugee if they have done so for the previous asylum applicant — or when it’s hot outside, or their alma mater has unexpectedly lost a football game. Using data on nearly four million speeding tickets in Florida, we examined another potential bias: whether something as trivial as having the same first name as a police officer could affect a driver’s likelihood of receiving a costly speeding ticket. It can. In most states, speeding ticket fines range widely, based on the speed cited above the posted limit. When writing tickets, officers frequently exercise discretion when it comes to what speed to cite and the corresponding fine. In Florida, the most common speeding ticket is for a speed of nine miles per hour over the limit, which calls for the lowest fine and is just below a large fine increase. About 26 percent of speeders receive this ticket, even though many of them were likely driving much faster. If justice were truly blind, the administration of such discounted “mercy tickets” would be equal across all populations. One study using these data found that minorities are less likely to receive mercy tickets and that officers are more lenient toward members of their own racial group. We hypothesized that individuals pulled over for speeding would be more likely to receive a mercy ticket if the officer who pulled them over shared the same first name. This could reflect use of what behavioral scientists call the “affect heuristic”: People’s decisions are influenced by their emotional reactions to objects, policies and persons, even when there is no justification for that influence. Because certain first names may be more common and associated with faster driving (because of correlations with race or socioeconomic status), we looked only at instances in which the same driver was pulled over at least twice during our study period (2004-17), by both an officer who shared the driver’s first name and an officer who did not. Our approach used each driver as their own control, relying on the randomness of officers occasionally pulling over drivers with their same first name. We asked whether a driver’s probability of receiving a mercy ticket would be lower when the driver shared the same first name as an officer. We also accounted for the vehicle a driver operated, the county in which the stop occurred and the time, day and week of the stop. On average, about 40 percent of drivers who were ticketed for speeding up to 20 miles above the speed limit received a mercy ticket, defined as a ticket for driving just nine m.p.h. above the speed limit instead of a ticket for the speed they were actually driving. That probability rose significantly — by a full 2 percent — when a driver shared a first name with the ticketing officer. That might not sound like a huge difference, but the effect is as large as the leniency officers of all races give to white as opposed to African-American drivers, and about two-thirds the size of the leniency officers give to white as opposed to Hispanic drivers. This means that when it comes to a driver’s chance of getting a mercy ticket, having the same first name as your officer is as important as being white. We found that the preference toward drivers with the same first name as the ticketing officer counteracts other biases. For instance, when a white officer pulls over an African-American or Hispanic driver with the same name, the negative racial bias disappears. The simple connection an officer experiences because of matching names overcomes any bias held against minority drivers. We suspect that “same name bias” can be found in many other areas — and that in the legal system, it’s the tip of the iceberg. It’s just one example of how law enforcement decisions can be highly subjective and how small, random and supposedly irrelevant factors determine how people end up treated, even when the stakes are high. Our findings remind us of the many ways in which police officers’ decisions can be influenced by the identities of the people they stop. As a result, justice is anything but blind.