The 2018 campaign may set a record for midterm spending, predicted to hit the $4 billion mark. The ways in which this staggering sum of money will have been collected and spent, and either disclosed or not disclosed, are evidence yet again that our campaign finance system — if it can even be called a “system” — is in tatters.  Super PACs, which can take money from virtually any source in any amount and spend just as freely, stand out as the most glaring example of the collapse of the post-Watergate-era model of regulation. Contribution limits, restrictions on corporate spending, disclosure requirements and muscular independent enforcement: These pillars of the systemic reforms of the 1970s are all crumbling.  How bad is it? In 2016, it turns out, one of the larger political organizations active in the presidential election, employing hundreds and spending millions, was organized and run by a foreign government. This intervention from abroad did not end there: The director of national intelligence has warned Congress that Russia “perceives its past efforts as successful and views the 2018 U.S. midterm elections as a potential target for Russian influence operations.” This, then, is the state of campaign finance: a no-holds-barred competition that has proved irresistible to foreign state actors. With the collapse of the 1970s model of regulation, the question is what should take its place — and what role should the United States government play?  There is no reason to believe that the old system can be restored. Super PACs are here to stay, but they are not the only source of radical change. So-called social welfare organizations — like the Koch brothers’ conservative Americans for Prosperity and similar organizations on the left — engage in just enough electoral activity to have a major impact, but not so much that they must comply with the same rules, such as disclosure regulations, that bind regular political committees.  Meanwhile, the storied 30- or 60-second TV ad is diminishing in importance. Digital politics consumes a steadily increasing share of campaign spending. The merest sliver of the population provides the private contributions on which campaigns run: In 2016, 2.76 percent of all individual contributors donated half of all individual money given to candidates, and just 1.31 percent of the voting-eligible population made any contributions at all. When the campaign finance laws first came under stress, in the early to mid-1980s, reformers were convinced that the cracks could be repaired. Through the enactment of the McCain-Feingold Act, Congress endeavored to close the so-called soft-money loophole, and the Supreme Court upheld the core elements of this reform. But the new law ignited active opposition, expressed in ceaseless litigation and a divided Federal Election Commission. Then a majority of the Supreme Court shifted sharply toward a jurisprudence hostile to regulatory limits.  Many reform aspirations are defined by a wish to turn back the clock. But there is little appetite on either side of the polarized political divide for government to constrain the resources available to pursue ideological or partisan commitments. Activists skeptical of the parties will be unlikely to give up the alternatives offered by super PACs and “social welfare” organizations. Similar obstacles lie in the path of extensive government regulation of online political speech and organizing. In effect, where reform once aimed to have government structure campaign finance with comprehensive rules, we have something close to an unregulated political marketplace. There are benefits: innovation, as in the development of advanced technologies and new forms of organization. But there are also steep costs: Markets can fail, delivering well — especially for the affluent — on some but not all measures of democratic health and vibrancy, and opening up opportunities for new and dangerous sources of abuse such as the Russian electoral intervention of 2016. What remains of the old legal framework is largely a study in unintended consequences, such as the effect of restrictions on the political parties in weakening them and aiding the rise of the super PACs.  The government’s role in reform needs a reorientation. A better model for the times could be built by putting less emphasis on elaborate, restrictive and increasingly futile regulation and instead providing public resources — and where necessary, facilitating access to private funding — for critical electoral functions. The goal would not be to supplant the political market, but to correct for its inadequacies.  The Senate Intelligence Committee has already called on the government to provide resources to states and localities to secure their voting systems and guard against cyberattack for the midterms. This is only one example of the need for the government to fund repairs to the withered campaign finance process. For example, candidates for national office are now entirely dependent on private funding. The federal government once offered matching funds and grants for presidential campaigns, but public support withered. The sums available through this program dwindled, and as campaign costs soared, few candidates had any reason to elect this option over private fund-raising. In 1986, Congress eliminated a tax credit for small donations that had been in effect for 14 years and claimed by millions of taxpayers. The government has also ineffectively regulated the rates charged to candidates for television and cable advertising, which is a significant factor in the astronomic campaign costs that drive frenetic fund-raising. A refreshed reform initiative could include among its aims bringing these programs back to life.  This reform model should also address the catastrophic failure of government at all levels to support modern, dependable access to the polls and a reliable vote count. States and localities that hold elections scramble for funding. President Barack Obama’s Commission on Election Administration reported, and election administrators repeatedly warn, that we are facing a breakdown in voting machinery as our equipment rapidly wears out. And to this impending crisis must now be added the urgent concern with securing voting systems against foreign and domestic hacking.  We often hear a simplistic objection to providing public resources in support of the democratic process: It’s “welfare for politicians.” The answer lies in a step-by-step approach of targeting public support for specific, vital electoral functions. Funding to safeguard the electoral process and replace voting machinery should enjoy bipartisan public support. Both parties would benefit from assistance in conducting voter registration programs and in sponsoring candidate debates. In addition to government assistance, in the form of cash grants or tax credits, the government could also channel private financing to achieve specific goals, such as through regulatory relief to facilitate the ability of particular political actors, like the parties, to finance specific activities and strengthen their position relative to the super PACs. There remains the hard task of devising transparency rules appropriate to the changing modes of spending to influence elections. Recent experience also underscores the need to shore up the ban on foreign-national spending to influence elections and the disclosure of foreign government programs that seek to influence United States government policy.  But the government has the affirmative obligation to underwrite or facilitate the financing of certain basic costs of a functional, flourishing democracy. It cannot leave all of these expenses to the market and to the private contributors who make up so small a share of the population. And it should act now — before the United States is spending less than the Kremlin on our elections.  Bob Bauer is a professor of practice and distinguished scholar in residence at New York University School of Law and served as a White House counsel under President Barack Obama. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 