Last week, President Trump lobbed racist insults at LeBron James, he called the press an enemy of the people (again), and Rudy Giuliani gave rambling interviews chock-full of lies and tacit admissions of guilt too tantalizing to ignore. It was a typical Trump week with myriad things to cover. We didn’t hear much about the administration’s secret plan to bypass Congress (and common sense) to give a giant tax break to Wall Street investors, a possible violation of the constitution and a betrayal of the president’s promises to stand up for the little guy. It's the result of what I call the “Trump Trap.” Many people — myself included — have invested enormous amounts of energy protesting Trump, yet we still lack a consistent indictment of him as we enter the midterms. The facts are clear: Donald Trump has repeatedly broken his promises to working people. He pledged to clean up the D.C. swamp, but he made it swampier. He said he would make health insurance better, but he actually asked a judge to strip it away from people with serious diseases like cancer and diabetes. His tax cuts ballooned C.E.O. salaries and stock buybacks, but real wages are still frozen. He has not only failed to make life better for working people but also has made an already precarious economic situation worse.  But you wouldn’t know it from watching the news. That’s because his unnecessary insults and controversies create a constellation of outrages that deflect accountability for his actions. We faced this same problem on the Hillary Clinton campaign. That's when I first experienced the Trump Trap.  You probably remember Khizr Khan, the Gold Star father who spoke so eloquently at the Democratic Convention about his son, Humayun, an Army captain, who heroically gave his life in Iraq.  His speech immediately went viral. But most remember it today because of how Mr. Trump reacted with racist insults about the Khan family. Despite tremendous backlash, Mr. Trump wouldn’t back down, and coverage went on for weeks. A person you probably don’t remember is Cheryl Lankford, who also spoke at the convention. She lost her husband, Army Command Sgt. Maj. Jonathan Lankford, to a heart attack while he was serving in Iraq. Left alone to raise their son, Ms. Lankford used her survivor benefits to enroll in Trump University, hoping Mr. Trump’s advice could jump start her career. After paying more than $30,000 in tuition, she got no training. Like so many Americans, she thought Mr. Trump could improve her economic future, but he swindled her and thousands of others. Now the swindle is happening on an epic scale. We hoped to highlight Ms. Lankford’s speech in the days leading up to Mrs. Clinton’s acceptance speech, so we gave her a prime-time speaking slot and introduced her with a video. We believed Americans needed to hear her story. But they never did.  In campaigns, we have a saying: If your opponent is hanging himself, give him more rope. In the week after the convention, while Mrs. Clinton was touring Western Pennsylvania and Eastern Ohio, talking about her plan to create jobs through new investments in infrastructure and advanced manufacturing, we tried to get out of the way of the negative coverage of Mr. Trump and his outrageous comments about Mr. Khan.  But the result was that people heard his message, not ours. So much so that after the election, some people thought Mrs. Clinton never talked about people’s economic lives. But she did. It just went into the black hole of the Trump Trap.  Mr. Trump never attacked Cheryl Lankford or the other people suing Trump University. Instead, he disparaged the Latino judge in the case, so we spent a week talking about how racist he is, not about how he had cheated working people. He didn’t attack Mrs. Clinton the week after the convention for her infrastructure plan or her advanced manufacturing plan; he hurled attacks at the Khans.  Mr. Trump will say and do things that demand a response from anyone who values decency and morality. The result is that he decides what gets attention — and he’s not held accountable. So what do we do? First, Democrats have to call these distractions what they are: distractions. A speech denouncing his name-calling will result in headlines about name-calling. That, as we learned, does not help voters understand what progressives believe and who we are fighting for. We need to demand answers for the administration’s assault on health care coverage, its corruption and its bilking of middle-income taxpayers.  Second, the media needs to realize that the game has changed. Just because the president says or tweets something outrageous doesn’t mean it’s news. Just like Facebook and Twitter have a responsibility to root out harassment and impostors from their platforms, the news media has an obligation to report responsibly on the president. Sometimes stupid insults are just that and should be ignored. That will mean lost revenue, but it’s a price worth paying. Third, we Democrats have to pick fights that highlight Mr. Trump’s malfeasance. When the president seeks to take away health insurance from seniors or people with cancer, we can’t let that go unnoticed. Some Democrats seem more interested in fighting one another on health care than fighting the Republican Party — let’s arm wrestle one another when we actually have a majority to pass a new law. In the meantime, let’s help voters understand why a change is so badly needed. Candidates: Beware the Trump Trap. The president has promised to spend a majority of his time campaigning this fall. He will call you names. He will come at you with outrage after outrage. It will be very tempting to wear this as a badge of honor to reap the rewards of social media attention and campaign donations. You will think he is drowning in backlash. But he will really just be making the debate about anything other than his own failings or the lives of the voters you wish to represent. Your vision and motivations will be obscured and vulnerable to subterfuge.  Before you give Mr. Trump more rope, make sure the debate is on your terms, not his.  Robby Mook managed Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign in 2016. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 