When they talk about President Trump, why are so many Democratic politicians talking about treason? Whatever they may truly believe, why are they letting their inflammatory rhetoric become decoupled from the facts? By doing so, they are setting the country on a dangerous, unpredictable trajectory that could lead to a crisis of political legitimacy. And by indulging their own worst instincts, these Democrats are guilty of fomenting the extreme, intemperate rhetoric for which they have consistently criticized the president.  If it were only activists or internet trolls claiming that Mr. Trump committed treason, it could, perhaps, be excused as excessive passion or immaturity. But these comments are also coming from elected Democrats with increasing regularity. Last week, Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, tweeted at the president, “Let’s be 1,000% clear: if you worked with a hostile foreign power during your election, it’s called TREASON.” The caps are in the original.  Nor is it just Senator Merkley. Other prominent Democrats, including Steny Hoyer, the House minority whip, have done it, too. Mr. Hoyer said that he agreed with John Brennan, a former C.I.A. director, that Mr. Trump’s meeting with the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, in Helsinki, Finland, last month was “nothing short of treasonous.” Representative Adam Smith of Washington State, the ranking Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, said that it was “hard to see” Mr. Trump’s actions as “anything other than treason.” The list keeps growing.  This is destructive of the very institutions that these politicians claim to defend because they are seeking not merely to oppose Mr. Trump and his presidency, but to delegitimize his election. It’s true that the president himself stridently criticizes his opponents. Like it or not, that’s politics. But attacking the legitimacy of an election undermines the efficacy of the regime itself in a way that the president’s accusations never have.  Perhaps such rhetoric arises from a sense of political impotence. After all, Republicans control the White House and both houses of Congress. Or perhaps Mr. Merkley, Mr. Hoyer, Mr. Smith and the others believe it. Maybe they think that Robert Mueller, the special counsel, will one day uncover the smoking gun that has become an article of faith among Trump haters. What that would look like is anyone’s guess. In this fraught political climate, smoking guns are probably in the eye of the beholder.  You may firmly believe that a smoking gun exists, but so far, no proof has been offered. And no, Mr. Trump holding a news conference with Mr. Putin isn’t it. Neither is the indictment of Paul Manafort for his business dealings with Ukraine. Indicting a Russian troll farm or a dozen Russian intelligence officers for hacking won’t do it, either. Russia did achieve its main goal in the election, and it wasn’t to pick a winner. It was to sow the seeds of internal division, to pit Americans against one another. In this, it was successful beyond its wildest dreams. Democrats should not have taken the bait.  What’s worrying is that Democrats appear not just to oppose the president’s policies, but also the man and, increasingly, the process that put him in office. Crying treason and hounding the president’s staffers and supporters out of public spaces using bully-boy tactics is poisonous.  Somewhere along the line, “resistance” became “Treason!” and Democrats embraced the paranoid style in American politics. Saying you are going to resist is the language of politics, of working within the system, of elected representatives engaged in reasoned debate as they try to limit the president’s ability to deliver on an agenda with which they disagree. It implies hope for the next election and the one after that. Even the threat of impeachment, while ill advised, recognizes a constitutional process that requires the action of a majority of the people’s elected representatives in the House.  It’s worth remembering that unlike “high crimes and misdemeanors,” treason is a capital offense. Should we take Mr. Merkley, Mr. Hoyer and Mr. Smith and the others tossing around this most serious accusation at their word? Do they believe that the United States Congress should send Mr. Trump to the scaffold as the British Parliament did to Charles I during the English Civil War?  Perhaps Democrats are merely being hyperbolic and playing to the base, looking for money and votes. Vicious as that would be, I hope that is the case. But given the persistence with which the accusation is made, one gets the sense that they are serious. What do they think would happen if they prosecuted their claim to its final conclusion? What would be the effect on the country? Do they think the 63 million Americans who voted for Mr. Trump would suddenly embrace Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer as saviors of the republic? Not likely. Rather, it would precipitate a fundamental crisis of confidence. Once this crisis was upon us, no one could know where or how it would end.  In the absence of proof of treason that meets a broadly accepted definition, such accusations are patently irresponsible and destructive. It is the language of people who believe that politics is pointless and that its institutions have become ineffectual.  Shortsighted Democrats might think the endgame is driving Mr. Trump from office and retaking the reins of power. As Victor Davis Hanson of Stanford’s Hoover Institution wrote recently in his column for American Greatness, the magazine I work for, “Almost every aspect of American culture has been weaponized to delegitimize Trump.” Trust in the American electoral system has already suffered collateral damage. Self-government requires trust. Once gone, it may never be restored. In this way, Mr. Trump’s opponents have turned legitimate political disagreement into an assault, perhaps unwitting, on the institution of self-government. This didn’t start in 2016. Branding half of the people in the country as “deplorables” and “bitter clingers” dehumanizes them. It means that their views — and eventually their votes — can be disregarded. If that happens, power will be based upon force or fraud.  Are Democrats willing to pull down our institutions and tear apart the social and political fabric that holds us together? Opposition to the president based upon gratuitous definitions of treason cannot realistically be separated from opposition to the millions of fellow citizens who voted for him, who in turn see the cry of treason as a self-serving attack on them and their choices. What to do? Mr. Trump’s opponents must accept that they lost a free, fair and open election. There is no evidence of anything anyone but the most cloistered partisan could call treason. Dispense with conspiracy theories and fantasies about gaining power by any means other than the ballot box. Stop the frivolous accusations of treason. And then set about the hard work of persuading the American people and earning their votes. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 