By Tina Rosenberg Ms. Rosenberg is a co-founder of an organization that supports rigorous reporting about responses to social problems.  Why do fictional television shows often do better than factual journalism at giving viewers a truer sense of the world in all its complexity? Here’s a big reason: TV script writers understand that viewers can deal with nuance and contradictions. Good TV, whether cable or broadcast, shows us fully rounded people grappling with challenges that viewers can identify with on some level, invented and over the top though they may be. They can be larger than life, like the mafia-don-in-therapy Tony Soprano, or more ordinary people like Coach and Mrs. Coach, doing the hard work of marriage on the Texas high-school football drama “Friday Night Lights” or Gretchen Cutler, a narcissistic sociopath on the road to maturity on “You’re the Worst.” These characters don’t always have the answers. They believe and do contradictory things. Stuff doesn’t always work out. You know, reality. Viewers don’t just tolerate complexity — they demand it. The one-dimensional characters of early network television dramas would seem boring and fake today. Journalists, however, too often seem to believe that audiences can’t handle complexity. There are exceptions, but a vast majority of journalism actively avoids it. Or we quote both sides and think that’s complexity. Like television writers, we are searching for a compelling story, but we tend to find it in the clash of the shrillest sound bites rather than in the fine distinctions that transmit important truths. If we have details or quotes that don’t fit the narrative, we often strip them out.  It’s not fake news. It is all based on facts. But much too often it presents the most cartoonish and reductive picture of a very intricate world. The consequences of this are severe. It increases polarization. Both Republicans and Democrats believe that people from the other party are more extreme than they really are — and that’s because journalists tend to present the extreme voices. People’s views are not one-dimensional, and there’s a lot we agree on. (A majority of Republicans favor regulating carbon emissions, for example.) But that doesn’t get reported, while conflict does.  It’s one reason the partisan gap is wider than it has ever been, with nearly half of each party holding a “very unfavorable” view of the other party. But curiously, they hate each other whether or not they disagree about policies. It’s our identity as a liberal or a conservative that counts. In reporting on the findings, The Intercept compared it to a team sports mentality: What could a Red Sox fan possibly learn that would turn him into a Yankees fan? When people feel attacked, they get defensive, close down and go on the attack themselves. They stop listening.  “In this hypervigilant state, we feel an involuntary need to defend our side and attack the other,” Amanda Ripley wrote in a report called Complicating the Narratives. (The Solutions Journalism Network, my organization, paid for the report. Ms. Ripley published a short version here.) “That anxiety renders us immune to new information. In other words: no amount of investigative reporting or leaked documents will change our mind, no matter what.”  Ms. Ripley reported on the research of the Difficult Conversations Laboratory at Columbia University. It assigned two people who disagree on an issue to discuss it. But first, they had to read a short article on a different controversial topic. If the article was simple and reductive, the conversation that followed tended to break down in negativity. But if the participants read an article that emphasized complexity — various points of view, more nuance, more attempt to understand the root of each side’s beliefs — the conversation was much more productive. People didn’t get converted. But they came away with a better understanding of why the other person thought that way, and more willingness to keep listening and talking.  Television storytelling wasn’t always complex, said Jason Mittell, a professor of film and media culture at Middlebury College. We used to have only three networks, and each show had to capture the largest possible audience, which meant it had to have a broad appeal. Nothing objectionable! So we got “Marcus Welby, M.D.,” “Dragnet,” “Gunsmoke,” “Miami Vice” and “Dallas” — fun shows for their time, but peopled with stick figures who didn’t grow and change.  In addition, TV shows had to be simple enough for viewers to understand the first time, because there was no second time, Professor Mittell wrote on The Conversation — no rewinding, no DVR and reruns only in the summer. That meant no extended character arcs over the course of a season — or even a few episodes. Shows essentially started over every week. Today television is so fragmented (487 original scripted TV shows aired last year) that a show can be a huge success with ratings that would have meant failure in the 1980s. Even broadcast network shows can go for a niche audience. While blockbuster movies today are made for the tastes of teenage boys in China, expensive, high-quality TV programming can be tailored to relatively small groups of sophisticated viewers. No one ever has to miss an episode. And twisty plots and obscure character motivations are fun to discuss online with other fans.  It’s obviously easier to present complex characters in a book, documentary or long story than in daily journalism. But the principle still holds: Don’t cartoonify. Bringing out complexity is possible even in the shortest pieces, and it would make our journalism more compelling, more impactful and more true.  So here’s what journalists can learn from scripted TV: In September 2017, Oprah Winfrey did her first segment for “60 Minutes.” She led a discussion among Michiganders — pro-Trump and anti-Trump — to “explore the political divide.” Ms. Ripley asked two mediators and conflict scholars to annotate the transcript.  They found a series of missed opportunities that revealed many of the mistakes daily reporters make that simplify and reduce reporting on politics. At the end of it, the lesson for viewers was that our divisions are intractable — not surprising, since intractability was what Ms. Winfrey sought to bring out. Viewers learned very little. She asked closed, yes-or-no questions. When someone had a response that indicated particularly interesting or complex thinking, she failed to explore it. She failed to broaden the debate with questions such as “What is dividing us?” She actually asked people for one-word responses. Several people made overtures to the other side; Ms. Winfrey ignored them.  Even short news pieces can find different sets of people to quote, voices that express more subtle views.  It’s not just political stories and person-on-the-street interviews in which this happens. Journalists oversimplify in reported features as well — TV news features often seem more scripted than real, with characters who are entirely heroic or entirely villainous. We often over-claim, making a problem sound completely intractable or making a response sound as if it has now solved everything. Sorry, not credible. We need to realize that news consumers can handle shades of gray.  This is the age of the television antihero. Television is full of horrible people. But showrunners know viewers wouldn’t spend time with Dexter Morgan, the serial killer, or Walter White, the meth king, if we couldn’t understand why they do what they do. They have back stories, and present moments in which they reveal their motivations.  Journalism usually gives us the sound bite, but not what’s behind it. There are exceptions: for example, a fascinating and nuanced Washington Post story on white evangelicals in an Alabama church grappling with President Trump’s adultery and other sins.  Lots of stories portray opponents of refugees as ignoramuses or racists. Well, some are and some aren’t. Public Radio International’s The World reported on two people at odds over whether to welcome Syrian refugees in Missoula, Mont. We learn that the opponent of refugees feared violence against sexual minorities — violence that person had already suffered. The two people did not come to agree, but they did understand each other — and became friends.  Spaceship Media is a small organization that puts together continuing conversations across political divides, usually working with a news organization that covers the discussion. With the Alabama Media Group, for example, Spaceship brought together 25 Hillary Clinton supporters from California and 25 Donald Trump supporters from Alabama to talk on Facebook for months during the 2016 presidential campaign. No, the participants didn’t change their minds. But they understood each other — and kept talking even when the project ended. On the few television shows that feature poor people, those people have lives. On “Good Times,” “The Wire,” “Shameless,” the characters have families and friends, interests and passions. They struggle, and they have fun. In the news, though, poor people, especially members of minorities, are one-dimensional. Journalists go to urban America to report on poverty and crime.  It’s not just poor communities of color who get this treatment — every marginalized group does. Many people who live in the South or Appalachia feel mocked by the national media, which tends to look for the people with four teeth. “Yes, we do things that make us look like ignorant yahoos,” an Alabamian told me. “But we also do other things — and you’re not interested in that.”  Reporting by stereotype isn’t necessarily inaccurate. But it’s surely incomplete.  Television’s fictional characters can’t be passive — no one would watch them. (Even on “Seinfeld,” “a show about nothing,” Jerry and his friends actively do nothing.)  In journalism, the wealthier and whiter you are, the more likely you are to be shown doing stuff. The farther you are from wealthy and white, the more likely you are to appear in the media having stuff done to you — either as a victim or as a person “served” by a wealthier do-gooder. The stories of what these people are doing take a little work to find, since they don’t have public relations firms or show up on the police scanner. But the work isn’t hard. Journalists could just ask their sources: Who’s doing things that I should know about?  In universities across the United States, students watch “The Wire” in urban sociology classes. It’s a far richer and more vivid description of the world of drug dealers than any piece of journalism (which is one reason its creator, David Simon, left journalism for TV).  “The Wire” is an extraordinary show. But ordinary shows, as well, can show viewers what the world is like. The anti-romantic-comedy “You’re the Worst,” about a toxic relationship, has focused with realism and sensitivity on mental illness: The female lead has clinical depression, and another major character has PTSD.  The job of journalism is to hold a mirror up to society. Too often, though, stories about social issues feature static quotes instead of showing people facing challenges in their lives. Too often the stories are boring and simplistic. They are true, but they don’t ring true.  It’s possible to do better. One example is the Chattanooga Times Free Press series “The Poverty Puzzle” (a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in Explanatory Reporting), which follows people at local churches, schools and social service agencies as they struggle to get out of poverty. They sometimes succeed, but more often don’t. The series shows what works and what doesn’t. It is hopeful and sad at the same time, but most of all it’s real.  Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book “The Haunted Land: Facing Europe’s Ghosts After Communism.” She is a former editorial writer for The Times and the author, most recently, of “Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World” and the World War II spy story e-book “D for Deception.”  To receive email alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 