NEW HAVEN — For five years, Nelson Pinos, my father, went to regular “check-ins” with immigration officials. Each time, the officials approved his requests to stay in this country. But last October, everything changed. “They want me to leave by November 30,” he told me. “They want me to show them a one-way plane ticket to Ecuador.”  I couldn’t believe it. My father, who came here more than two decades ago and is undocumented, has no criminal record, has always paid his taxes and has three children who are American citizens — me, my 13-year-old sister and my 5-year-old brother. Two weeks later, I watched as an officer snapped a monitor onto my father’s right ankle. When we got home, we wept in each other’s arms. Going to Ecuador would be devastating for our family. My siblings and I were born in New Haven and our entire life is here. We’re a close family doing exactly what most other American families do: working and studying hard, having fun. My little brother and sister hardly know how to speak Spanish. In two years I’ll be able to go to college, and my father didn’t want to ruin all that by taking us back to Ecuador.  But neither did he want to leave us and our mother in Connecticut. So on Nov. 30, the day of his scheduled deportation, we drove to the First and Summerfield United Methodist Church in downtown New Haven and my father claimed sanctuary. He still has his ankle bracelet, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement knows exactly where he is. But so long as he does not step outside, he is safe. We told my little brother that our father was working at the church. He kept asking, “Why can’t dad come home at night?” and would cry every time he left the church. I know someone whose father was deported when he was 7, and even though he is 18 now, he still thinks his father abandoned him. My mother tries to be strong, but I can tell this is all too much for her. I try to help, but she just looks so tired. They used to do everything together.  My family now can spend money on only what is necessary. My little sister doesn’t understand that. There are times she will ask our father for something, like a new pair of sneakers, and he will say: “I can’t help you. I am so useless.” I’ve been working at McDonald’s to save up money for braces, but instead I decided to buy those sneakers for my sister.  My dad, who worked in a factory, has always pushed us to do well in school. “Don’t be like me, who didn’t finish school,” he would say to me if I got a B. It was harder than usual to do well in school this year. I felt constantly distracted but was determined to get good grades because my father made me promise to not let his situation get in the way of school.  When we visit him at the church, he cracks jokes and tries to make us feel like nothing is going on. But I know he is really sad and feels alone. He is stressed and doesn’t sleep at night. The worst part is seeing him feel powerless. He always says: “What am I supposed to do? I can’t do anything about this.”  My sister asked me if some days I feel like I want to scream. And I do, but mostly I just cry. I miss our family cookouts and trips to a little farm where we fed the animals. Or just being in the living room together, all of us bunched up watching a movie and laughing. We believe that God is with us and that he will help us stay together because he loves us. My father is waiting for the Board of Immigration Appeals, an office in the Justice Department, to decide whether to stay his deportation. But sometimes at night, when I can’t sleep, I feel scared that my father will give up hope and leave the church and be deported by ICE.  When my father told me about the immigrant parents and children who were separated at the border and detained, I knew that their experience was way more painful than ours. I have not been forced into a cage or an “icebox,” and as long as my father stays trapped in the church, I can still see him. But I also can relate to those kids, because the government is trying to separate me from my parent, too.  I really don’t understand why people in this country hate us so much. This year, I’ve realized that there aren’t as many good people as I thought there were. The truth is I’ve never seen so much hatred. The people who support the deportation of undocumented immigrant parents with no criminal records still think we are all rapists or gang members. They don’t see the good. We work hard. We do the jobs Americans don’t want to do. My father cares for this country and his community, and all he wants is to have a better life for his family. He is just trying to raise three good children.  Sometimes, I get asked to speak at rallies or meetings, to represent my family. When I do that, I feel like I’m speaking not just for myself but for everyone going through this. I hope that what I say catches someone’s attention and really inspires them to do something about how immigrants are being treated in this country. I beg people to please have a heart.  Kelly Pinos will be a high school junior in New Haven this fall. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 