In Hollywood, it’s never lonely at the top. The top is where everyone wants to be your pal. That’s why the industry silence surrounding the allegations of sexual harassment against CBS chairman and chief executive, Leslie Moonves, is strange. I’m sure Mr. Moonves’s phone is filled with “Got your back, buddy” texts, but so far, his only boldfaced public support has come from Lynda Carter and Sharon Osbourne — two-thirds of a tic-tac-toe line on “Hollywood Squares.” Stephen Colbert is one of the few high-profile men to address the subject head on. From his host desk on “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert,” he recognized his debt to his CBS overlord while maintaining that “accountability is meaningless unless it’s for everybody.” That was an admirable sentiment, especially coming from the same stage where, in 2009, David Letterman announced, “I have had sex with women who work for me on this show.” Mr. Letterman’s admission was greeted with applause and laughter. It shows progress that sexual harassment in the workplace is being taken more seriously. Silence is definitely an improvement over giddy approval. The tremendous power wielded by Mr. Moonves explains why many have kept their condemnations to a whisper. Others, who have enjoyed working with him for decades, say they are “stunned” by the revelations and still processing. But there’s another reason for the quiet that no one will admit: I believe many men in the entertainment industry are staying mum because these charges hit too close to home.  The Harvey Weinstein and Bill Cosby stories were grotesque, with accusations that went far beyond harassment to rape, a criminal offense. They set the bar for bad behavior so low that everyone could step over it. The Moonves story, by comparison, is tamer. Six women have accused him of making unwanted sexual advances, forcible touching or kissing during business meetings, and professional retaliation after those advances were rebuffed. Mr. Moonves, who admits that he “may have made women uncomfortable by making advances,” moved the bar higher, making it easier for others to trip on.  I’ve heard grumbling from colleagues, male and female, that the rules on sexual harassment are “confusing” and that behavior from decades ago can’t be viewed through today’s prism. Actually, the laws are clear and have been in place for almost four decades. Sexual harassment is a violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as recognized by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in 1980 and affirmed by the Supreme Court in 1986. If someone with the power to hire or fire makes a sexual advance, it’s not a line being crossed — it’s a law being broken. And what about gray areas like teasing and offhand comments? The EEOC’s website deals with that, too:  “Although the law doesn’t prohibit simple teasing, offhand comments, or isolated incidents that are not very serious, harassment is illegal when it is so frequent or severe that it creates a hostile or offensive work environment or when it results in an adverse employment decision (such as the victim being fired or demoted).” The laws haven’t suddenly changed, but what may be shifting are the unwritten yet commonly accepted rules of Hollywood.  I imagine many male executives are rifling through their pasts, wondering, “Did I ever make a woman uncomfortable?” and “Does she remember that incident?” (Hint: She does.) This self-examination has muted their reactions. How can you say anything when you, too, have shut a door during a business meeting and made a move, you know, just to test the water? When you, too, invited a woman who pitched an idea or auditioned for a part out to dinner? When you, too, became angry that a woman wasn’t interested, so you decided to teach her a lesson by hurting her professionally? Dan Harmon, creator of “Community,” admitted he did just that in this public apology to a fellow writer: “I crushed on her and resented her for not reciprocating it and the entire time I was the one writing her paychecks and in control of whether she stayed or went and whether she felt good about herself or not, and said horrible things. Just treated her cruelly, pointedly, things I would never, ever would have done if she had been male and if I had never had those feelings for her.” For every #MeToo, there’s a #YouToo. Speaking out to defend or condemn Mr. Moonves would invite scrutiny. Nobody wants a finger pointing at them, and there are a lot of fingers to point. A recent survey of 2,000 Writers Guild of America West members found that 64 percent of female TV and movie writers have experienced sexual harassment during their careers. (Two of the women who accused Mr. Moonves of making advances and threats were writers.) Many entertainment executives create safe and inclusive work spaces. But for too long, the profession that invented the “casting couch” has regarded warnings against sexual harassment more like “suggestions” from H.R. instead of punishable civil offenses. Since the days of Louis B. Mayer, sexual access has been one of the perks of success. Eliminating that perk is like an executive suddenly being locked out of his Tesla. That would strike him as unfair. Car doors — and women’s legs — are supposed to open automatically.  No one gives up perks without a fight, and the ending of this CBS drama has yet to be written. Two New York City law firms are investigating the allegations and overall corporate culture at the network while Mr. Moonves remains at the top. And while we wait, the question being quietly texted all over town is: “Will he keep his job?” Answers range from “Nah, he’s gone” to “He just has to wait for it to blow over” to “Six months ago, I would have said he’d go down but now I don’t know.”  Yes, there’s silence in Hollywood, but the screaming inside the heads of women is as loud as ever.  Nell Scovell is a TV writer and director and the author, most recently, of “Just the Funny Parts.”