Stacey Abrams, the first black woman nominated for governor by a major party, is banking on her ability to mobilize progressive constituencies, convinced she can register and turn out tens of thousands of minority voters on Election Day.  The black share of the Georgia electorate has been growing rapidly. The Atlanta Journal Constitution reported that the number of African-Americans voting in the May primary grew by 43 percent between 2010 and 2018, while white voters declined 9 percent. In 2017, the state population was 52.8 percent white — on the cusp of turning majority minority.  Abrams is an outspoken proponent of the liberal agenda, from LGBT rights to gun control to automatic voter registration to the elimination of cash bail. After her primary victory, Abrams made this clear: “We are writing the next chapter in Georgia’s history, where no one is unseen, no one is unheard and no one is uninspired.” In an interview, Abrams, the former minority leader of the Georgia House of Representatives and a Yale Law School graduate, described the Trump administration as an “abomination.”  Directly to the north of Georgia, Phil Bredesen, a former governor of Tennessee — who has capitalized on praise from a slew of notable local Republicans — is counting on the center to send him to the Senate.  Bredesen’s primary night victory speech on Aug. 2 stands in sharp contrast to the one Abrams delivered in May: We’ve just turned into a country where everybody stands on opposite sides of the room and shouts at each other. I’d like to be part of the fix for that, to start bringing us back together to find some solutions and to do some things together. Tennessee is 73.9 percent white. In his latest digital ad, “What Republicans Are Saying About Phil Bredesen,” the campaign cites favorable comments from prominent Republicans, including Sen. Bob Corker and Representative Chuck Fleischmann.  In an earlier television ad, Bredesen — a Harvard graduate with a degree in physics and a business executive who founded HealthAmerica Corporation — made his opposition to polarization explicit: “I’m not running against Donald Trump.” There are “a lot of things I personally don’t like about Donald Trump,” Bredesen says, but he is the president of the United States and if he has an idea or is pushing something that is going to be good for Tennessee, I’m going to be for it no matter where it came from. And likewise, if I think it’s not going to be good for Tennessee I’m going to be against it. On Tuesday, Democratic primary voters demonstrated a strong preference for centrist candidates; in May and June, they chose progressives. Looking toward the general election in November, there is evidence in support of both the Abrams and the Bredesen strategies.  The Third Way — a leading Democratic think tank that pushes for centrist, pro-business policies — conducted a poll June 14-15 designed to test the strength of two competing messages.  The first message expressed support for positions best described as non-adversarial and focused on expanding economic opportunity: It’s getting harder and harder for people to earn the life they want. That’s because the economy has changed dramatically, but government is stuck in the past. To solve this, we need an opportunity agenda for the Digital Age so that everyone everywhere has the opportunity to earn a better life. The second message takes a decidedly adversarial stance toward the rich and illustrates an approach based on economic populism: The American people must make a fundamental decision. Are we prepared to take on the enormous economic and political power of the billionaire class, or do we continue to slide into economic and political oligarchy? This is the most important question of our time, and how we answer it will determine the future of our country. For all intents and purposes, the result was a draw. The first message — similar to Bredesen’s approach — got slightly more support from respondents (75 agree, 17 disagree), compared with 69-19 for the second message. But a higher percentage, 36 percent, “strongly” agreed with the more assertive populist message — similar to the Abrams approach — than the 32 percent for the message focused on opportunity.  A paper called “Who Punishes Extremist Nominees? Candidate Ideology and Turning Out the Base in US Elections,” by Andrew B. Hall and Daniel M. Thompson, political scientists at Stanford, arguably helps make the case for the moderate Bredesen-type, non-polarizing strategy. The authors argue that more extreme candidates tend to  do poorly in general elections in large part because they skew turnout in the general election away from their own party and in favor of the opposing party. Hall and Thompson contend that this happens because their positions “activate the opposing party’s base more than their own.” When the Republican Party picks a nominee from the far right, or the Democrats from the far left, voters in the opposite party “actually have a stronger incentive to turn out when an extremist is nominated, because the extremist is so far away from them ideologically.” The phenomenon described by Hall and Thompson may well be on target, but there is another possibility raised by Sean McElwee, co-founder of Data For Progress, which describes itself as “the think tank for the future of progressivism.”  McElwee and his colleagues developed a poll that they maintain shows strong support for policies that others have criticized as too extreme. In effect they contend that Democrats can support many progressive policies without paying a penalty from moderates, because those policies now have mainstream backing: “We find that the punditry has vastly underestimated the potential of an unabashedly left progressive agenda.” The Data For Progress survey, conducted by YouGov Blue, polled 1515 adults July 13-16 and found, the authors assert, strong public support for ending cash bail except for those who “were a violence or flight risk” (45 percent support, 24 oppose); “having the government produce generic versions of lifesaving drugs, even if it required revoking patents held by pharmaceutical companies” (51-21); and “federal funding of community job creation for any person who can’t find a job” (55-23). Data For Progress also cited the Kaiser Family Foundation health tracking poll from March that reported strong backing for universal Medicare coverage — a key element of the platforms of many of the Democratic senators exploring bids for the 2020 presidential nomination. Kaiser noted that Six in ten (59 percent) favor a national health plan, or Medicare-for-all, in which all Americans would get their insurance from a single government plan — including a majority of both Democrats and independents and about one-third of Republicans. Thirty-eight percent oppose such a plan. In addition, support for universal Medicare increases among the overall public (75 percent) and among partisans (87 percent of Democrats, 74 percent of independents, and 64 percent of Republicans) when framed as an option for anyone who wants it, but people who currently have other forms of coverage can keep the coverage they already have. Kaiser did warn, however, that it is unclear how support would fare if these proposals became part of the larger public debate as previous Kaiser Family Foundation polling has found the public’s attitudes can be quite malleable. The Data for Progress survey found that other progressive policies face substantial opposition. Reparations, in the form of “offering compensation or tax credits to descendants of slaves,” was opposed 48-27. Giving every American $1,000 a month to be “paid for by raising taxes on people making more than $150,000” was opposed 43-37.  In “The Future of The Party,” McElwee, the lead author of the report commissioned by Justice Democrats, takes a strong stand against Democrats in the Bredesen mold.  Section titles include “The Democratic Party simply cannot move to the center; the base won’t allow it” and “The path forward is unleashing nonvoters, not targeting the mushy middle.”  The May 22 primary result in Georgia supports McElwee’s thesis: Abrams beat a more moderate opponent, Stacey Evans, in a landslide, 76.5 to 23.5. The Aug. 2 primary result in Tennessee, however, does not: Bredesen, who rejects liberal Democratic orthodoxy, faced virtually no opposition in the primary, winning the senatorial nomination with 91.5 percent of the vote. The results of the primaries held on Tuesday generally support the Bredesen-centrist strategy. The Washington Post reported that the “Democratic Party’s liberal insurgency hits a wall in Midwest primaries”; Politico pointed out that “Tuesday night’s largely Midwest primaries produced a near-shutout for the anti-establishment left”; and The Wall Street Journal declared that “Most Candidates Backed by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Bernie Sanders Falter.” On May 18, however, the political website 538 reported: The Democratic Party woke up this morning with a clear signal from Tuesday’s primary elections: The #Resistance means business. The more progressive candidate won in Democratic primaries around the country. In an analysis of Democratic primaries through July 12, Brookings found that establishment candidates had won 88 and progressive candidates had won 64. The results from Tuesday now increase the share won by establishment candidates. Jonathan Cowan, president of the Third Way, argues that progressives like McElwee are wrong. “We know that when voters have had a chance to weigh in directly on these Sanders-style policies at the ballot box,” Cowan wrote in an email, “they reject them.”  The Data For Progress and Third Way surveys provide a case study in how seemingly similar polls can produce antithetical conclusions. Third Way asked voters: Thinking about what the government in Washington, D.C. could do to directly help you and your family, which of the following policies should be the greater focus: Policies that spread opportunity to more people and places or policies that address income inequality? Opportunity beat inequality 46-25. Another question posed by Third Way: would voters choose a candidate who A) supports these three issues “a single government-run health care plan for all Americans, raising the minimum wage to $15, free college for all Americans” or a candidate who B) supports these three issues “creating 1 million new apprenticeship positions, giving every American who works a private retirement account on top of Social Security, eliminating all federal taxes on the first $15,000 of income.” Candidate A loosely fits the Abrams mold; while Candidate B loosely approximates Bredesen, Candidate B won out, 46-23. Ronald Brownstein, in a July 31 article on the CNN website, argues that in major statewide races in the South gains in white-collar suburbs will be critical to Democratic prospects in the Georgia governor’s race between African-American Democrat Stacey Abrams and Republican Secretary of State Brian Kemp; the highly competitive Tennessee Senate contest between former Democratic Governor Phil Bredesen and Republican Rep. Marsha Blackburn; and the more uphill, but still competitive, challenge by Democratic Rep. Beto O’Rourke against Republican Sen. Ted Cruz in Texas. Mobilizing African-Americans, Latinos and other nonwhite voters “undeniably represents an essential part of the equation for Democrats across the region,” Brownstein writes. Still, he adds, increased minority participation is “necessary, but not sufficient.”  In key regions of the South and perhaps particularly in Georgia, President Trump has provided momentum for the two-part Democratic strategy Brownstein suggests: winning over well-educated white suburbanites offended by the president and mobilizing minorities enraged by the president. It remains to be seen whether a durable coalition can form around offense and outrage. I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 