As the midterm elections draw nearer, the odds that Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, will spearhead any major developments in the Russia investigation before Election Day grow steeper and steeper. The Justice Department generally does its best to avoid taking action in such a way that it might influence an election — even as the president tweets defiantly that there was “No Collusion!” Functionally, this means that voters will likely be left to make up their minds about how seriously to take the possibility of collusion without any further guidance from the special counsel’s office.  So if Mr. Mueller remains silent, what is there to say at this point about how the pieces of the Russiagate puzzle fit together? To start with, even the president has now acknowledged on Twitter that Donald Trump Jr. met with a Kremlin-linked lawyer at Trump Tower for the purposes of gathering dirt on Hillary Clinton. Whatever President Trump tweets, this would seem to fall squarely into the category of collusion — which may explain why some of the president’s more fervent supporters have begun suggesting that any help Russia provided in defeating Mrs. Clinton should be celebrated.  Between extensive reporting and the work of the special counsel’s office, we have a detailed — though incomplete — sense of how the Russian effort fit together. The Kremlin orchestrated a widespread social media campaign along with the hacking and leaking of emails from the Democratic National Committee and John Podesta, Mrs. Clinton's campaign chairman. It reached out to Trump aides like George Papadopoulos, Roger Stone and, yes, Donald Trump Jr.  So there was plenty to collude with. And judging by Mr. Trump Jr.’s eager response to the offer of dirt — “If it’s what you say I love it, especially late in the summer,” he wrote to the music producer who brokered the meeting — there was plenty of willingness on the Trump campaign’s side. The real question is whether that eagerness ever added up to a systematic outreach, and if so, how high up that outreach originated. “We couldn’t collude amongst ourselves,” argued the former Trump campaign adviser J.D. Gordon (himself stealing a line from Senator Lindsey Graham). Mr. Gordon wrote this in November 2017, a year after the election. But with everything we know heading into November 2018, incompetence no longer seems particularly exonerating.  Lordy, there are tapes. A significant proportion of the drama of the Russia investigation over the past year has unspooled from Mr. Trump’s May 2017 tweet threatening the just-fired F.B.I. director, James Comey, with the existence of “tapes” of their conversations. But in the summer of 2018, the tapes that have surfaced are not the president’s but those of his former attorney Michael Cohen and, as we learned this weekend, the former White House adviser and “Apprentice” contestant Omarosa Manigault Newman. The latter also claims to have recorded some of her conversations with the president, and this weekend released audio of her own firing from the White House. The administration and the Republican Party are doing their best to distance Mr. Trump from Ms. Manigault Newman, calling her a liar — but that raises the question of why the president hired her in the first place. Unite the Right 2. One year after the anniversary of the violent rally in Charlottesville, Va., a small group of extremists gathered on Sunday afternoon in front of the White House. Only about 20 white supremacists attended, guarded by police and heavily outnumbered by large crowds of counterprotesters. The president, meanwhile, once again failed to explicitly condemn white supremacists in a Saturday tweet. In The Atlantic, Adam Serwer writes that while what seemed to be a bourgeoning white nationalist movement has collapsed in the wake of Charlottesville, the groups’ extremist ideology has taken hold within the mainstream Republican Party. This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. David Leonhardt, the newsletter’s author, is on a break until Aug. 27. While he’s away, several outside writers are taking his place. This week’s author is Quinta Jurecic  (@qjurecic), managing editor of Lawfare, the national-security publication. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 