Here are some things that are true today: Artificial intelligences already outperform us at many tasks and are now able to train themselves to reach competencies (in restricted domains such as chess or Go) that we can barely comprehend. The controlled use of hallucinogenics and other drugs may soon be part of mainstream therapy for depression, loss, anxiety and other conditions. Sex and companionship robots are already here. Entirely new forms of sensory perception, such as the North Sense, are becoming possible, and human brains look fluid enough to make use of just about any reliable stream of information and control opportunity. The human genome itself is now an object of control and intervention. Gender is becoming more visibly fluid than ever before, and there is emerging a place in human society for a wonderfully wide spectrum of ways of being (personally, politically and sexually). One new tool for exploring some of that spectrum will be the use of immersive interactive virtual realities, such as the BeAnotherLab. Technological devices like cellphones and tablets are being used to help offset types of biological damage, such as a highly impaired memory, that just a few decades ago would have condemned victims to constant care. Sports for people with disabilities, whether adaptive or para-sports, are positively expanding our images of health and fitness in ways that would have been hard to imagine just a few decades ago. Neuro-enhancement, the improvement by drugs, practices, or implants of normal mental functioning, is possible and may soon become the norm. What does it mean to live in this kind of emerging world? It is to live in a world marked more by possibility, fluidity, change and negotiability than by outdated images of fixed natures and capacities. This is a world of remarkable personal and social possibility. Sharing and group solidarity are now easier than ever before, and the communal mapping of new electronic trails is enabling multiple once-hidden demographics to command social, commercial and political respect. It’s a world where human intelligence itself is poised for repair and reinvention. And one whose bedrock nature is itself becoming fluid, as digital overlays augment reality with personalized pointers (the information-rich cousins of the contemporary elves and pixies of Pokémon Go). It’s also a world permeated by a growing swath of alien intelligences (just ask Alexa, although she won’t really admit it). All this blurs the boundaries between body and machine, between mind and world, between standard, augmented and virtual realities, and between human and post-human. At the cusp of these waves of change, this is also the moment at which, increasingly, inclusivities of one kind (extensions of personal, social and sexual freedom) bump up against the threat of new forms of exclusivity, as the augmented, fluid, connected cyber-haves increasingly differentiate themselves from the unaugmented, less connected, cyber have-nots. Perhaps this is part of the price of all that laudable loosening?  After all, there was a time when written scholarly text was itself the province of only a few groups of enviably-positioned humans. In the end (and with the inventions of cheap mass-production) the transformative potential of text was set free, and it reshaped the world. This is a moment to be savored, even as we sound new notes of care and caution about the speed, nature and range of these changes. Part of this process involves getting used to the alien nature and pervasive reach of the many new subintelligences that now surround us. These are the algorithms that talk with us, that watch us, that trade for us, that select dates for us, that suggest what we might buy, sell, or wear. They are the algorithms that pool information about us, and that will slowly permeate the full range of human-built environments, from bridges to roads to cities and more minor intelligent devices. These are not yet intelligences like our own. But some of their greatest potential lies in the ways we humans might cooperate with them to form new hybrid systems that deliver the best of each. On top of all this, new understandings of the mind and brain are helping to break down the old boundaries between the psychological and the physical, as we learn not just how deeply the body matters to the mind, but also how the brain helps predict and construct the world of human experience. We now glimpse the next steps in human cultural and cognitive evolution, continuing the trend that started with the arrival of human language and the (much later) invention of writing and the external storage and transmission of ideas. The new steps herald an age of fluidity and demand answers to a host of questions and issues that need to be addressed in conversations like this one. The two most important such questions are simply: How should we negotiate this dauntingly large space of human possibility? And what costs are we willing to tolerate along the way? The first is a question of practice, the second of ethics. Practically speaking, it will not be easy to decide in a world of so many possible ways of being, so many enhancements and augmentations, and so many social practices, which ones are for us. Here, immersive virtual reality may play a useful role, allowing the cheap and easy, if somewhat superficial, exploration of multiple ways of being. For example, work from the BeAnotherLab uses immersive virtual reality, with body tracking, to enable us to (in a small way) experience being taller, shorter, or having a differently gendered body. Ethically speaking, we need to ask what new costs and inequalities the freedoms and augmentations of some may mean for others. We need to ask if we are willing to tolerate some inequality as part of the rollout process for a more fluid and interconnected world. Issues of privacy and the right to control (including to trade or sell) our personal information are vividly with us. Not knowing quite where we as protected selves stop and the world around us begins, law and policy struggle to decide if (for example) information stored on our phones is enough like information stored in our heads to warrant the same protections. Law, education and social policy currently lag behind many interacting waves of change. What is up for grabs is what we humans are, and what we will become.  Andy Clark is a professor of logic and metaphysics at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland and the former director of the Cognitive Science Program at Indiana University, Bloomington. Now in print: “Modern Ethics in 77 Arguments,” and “The Stone Reader: Modern Philosophy in 133 Arguments,” with essays from the series, edited by Peter Catapano and Simon Critchley, published by Liveright Books. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.