One of the stranger subplots in the story of the Russia investigation has been that of Peter Strzok, formerly a senior counterintelligence agent. When his text messages critical of President Trump were revealed in the summer of 2017, he rocketed into the public eye. As of this week, that subplot is complete: On Monday, Mr. Strzok was fired from the F.B.I.  Mr. Strzok helped lead the investigation into Hillary Clinton’s private email server and played a role in the probe into ties between the Trump campaign and Russian intelligence. But Robert Mueller, the special counsel, dismissed him from the Trump-Russia investigation over concern that his text messages — exchanged on F.B.I. phones with a colleague, Lisa Page, with whom Mr. Strzok was having an affair — would create the appearance of bias.  In the year since Mr. Strzok’s indiscretion became public, he has proved a useful punching bag for the president and his allies in both Congress and the media. According to Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed, Mr. Strzok is “incompetent and corrupt” and a “sick loser” — a man at the epicenter of a vast conspiracy to cook up a bogus “witch hunt” against the president. As with everything about Mr. Strzok’s public role over the last year, it’s hard to know what to make of his firing. Mr. Strzok’s texts with Ms. Page were indefensible. (The Justice Department inspector general wrote that the two displayed “extremely poor judgment and a gross lack of professionalism.”) But the F.B.I.’s Office of Professional Responsibility recommended that he be demoted and suspended for 60 days — not fired. His dismissal instead came at the direction of the F.B.I. deputy director, David Bowdich, who overruled the formal recommendation. As my Lawfare colleague Susan Hennessey wrote, Mr. Bowdich’s highly unusual intervention raises the “specter of politically motivated retaliation” against Mr. Strzok.  The president, of course, can’t help himself. Within an hour of Mr. Strzok’s firing, he took to Twitter, crowing over the defeat of his latest whipping boy and hinting that the Russia probe should be tossed along with Mr. Strzok.  This, ultimately, is the core of the smallness and viciousness of the Strzok affair. His dismissal will not make the Russia investigation go away. At the end of the day, he was thrown into the grist mill of pro-Trump media and chewed to pieces by Fox News and House Republicans for a few months’ worth of cynical, lucrative outrage.  But his humiliation is also a message to public servants: Here’s what will happen to you if you cross the president. Other takes on Peter Strzok. The Washington Post takes a look at the damage Mr. Strzok’s texts may have done to the Mueller investigation. In Politico, Bradley P. Moss argues that Mr. Strzok’s dismissal should be understood as a Trumpist purge of the F.B.I., while the former F.B.I. special agent Josh Campbell defends the decision, writing at CNN that “F.B.I. executives had to weigh [Strzok’s] past investigative performance against recent misconduct, and likely determined he could no longer effectively serve the organization.” Meanwhile, Bobby Goodlatte, the son of the House Judiciary chairman Bob Goodlatte, said on Twitter that he was “embarrassed that Peter Strzok’s career was ruined by my father’s political grandstanding.” An awkward Thanksgiving. The younger Mr. Goodlatte is not the only one to voice public criticism of a close family member: David S. Glosser, the uncle of the White House adviser Stephen Miller, has written an unforgiving Politico Magazine piece voicing his “dismay and increasing horror” at his nephew’s transformation into “the architect of immigration policies that repudiate the very foundation of our family’s life in this country.” This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. David Leonhardt, the newsletter’s author, is on a break until Aug. 27. While he’s away, several outside writers are taking his place. This week’s author is Quinta Jurecic  (@qjurecic), managing editor of Lawfare, the national-security publication. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).