In the past few years, one of the core pillars of the environmental movement — recycling — has fallen on hard times. News dispatches reveal hundreds of cities and counties scaling back their recycling programs because of the high costs associated with processing recyclables and the lack of demand for the materials. A new conventional wisdom is gaining ground suggesting that recycling may not be worth the effort.  But is that true? And has recycling ever gotten a fair shake? After decades, less than a third of municipal solid waste is recycled — and much of that is contaminated with garbage, which diminishes or destroys its value. Almost 50 years after the first Earth Day, are we really ready to admit defeat and return to the “Mad Men”-era ethos of the “throwaway society”? There may be another way. For most of the past decade, Recycle Across America, a nonprofit organization I covered in this column six years ago, has been demonstrating that it’s quite possible to get people to recycle properly, just as it’s possible to get most people to wear seatbelts, quit smoking and stop driving drunk. But the recycling industry has never taken the logical steps needed to create a successful societywide recycling habit — and today it may not be in the economic interest of some of the big recycling companies to build it. Recently, I spoke with Mitch Hedlund, the founder of Recycle Across America, about this dilemma and the possibility that a recycling collapse can be avoided.  David Bornstein: What’s happening to recycling today? Mitch Hedlund: Recycling in the U.S. is in a pretty serious crisis. For example, to date, 1,000 recycling centers and processing plants have shut down in California alone.  The crisis stems from people throwing garbage in recycling bins, which contaminates the recyclables. The contamination is such an issue that China, one of the largest purchasers of U.S. recycling, has been warning the U.S. for over 10 years to start cleaning up our recyclables. But the recycling industry didn’t heed the warning, and now China has quit buying most U.S. recyclables this year.  It’s important to reiterate that China’s recent decision to no longer purchase recyclables from the U.S. is not the cause of the U.S. recycling crisis as has been widely reported.  DB: What led to this situation? MH: The root of the crisis starts with the way recycling has been presented to the public. There are thousands of confusing recycling instructions on bins throughout the country, which makes people skeptical and apathetic about recycling, and projects the message that recycling is unimportant. And the inconsistent labels on bins lead to millions of tons of garbage being thrown into recycling bins. The contamination is extremely expensive to try to pull out of the recyclables during processing, which makes the recycled commodities less desirable to manufacturers — and, therefore, makes it less cost effective to recycle.  Most people don’t know that this problem is easily solvable. In our work, at Recycle Across America, we’ve seen that the societywide standardized labeling system for recycling bins can eliminate most of the contamination. It’s a simple solution — but some of the large groups that influence the recycling industry are not motivated to fix the problem.  DB: Why not?  MH: Some of the biggest and most dominant recycling companies in the U.S. are owned by landfill companies. Therefore, when recycling doesn’t work well, the landfill side of their businesses becomes more profitable. You’ll notice in many news articles, the recycling professionals that are providing the excuses why recycling isn’t profitable or isn’t worth it right now are often working for or funded by the landfill industry, the virgin materials industry or the waste-to-energy incinerator industry.  When there is this type of conflict of interest at such an influential level in the recycling industry, it becomes clear why the simple issue of public confusion at the bin wasn’t resolved. Because when recycling is highly contaminated and too costly to process, then the landfills generate more revenues, the virgin material industries sell more virgin materials and there is a stronger appetite for building incinerators that burn waste to create energy.  As an analogy, imagine the groups responsible for promoting road safety in the U.S. also owning most of the auto body shops, hospitals and morgues.  DB: What will be the effect if the recycling industry does collapse?  MH: Economically speaking, the recycling industry is more than a $200 billion industry worldwide. For every one job in the landfill industry, there are five to 10 jobs related to recycling.  Environmentally speaking, there is no other action that society can do today to simultaneously improve our impact on the environment, manufacturing and the economy as recycling can. When recycling doesn’t work, more finite and virgin resources are used: more oil drilled, more trees harvested, more fresh water and energy used, more materials littered, more waste in oceans, more carbon dioxide emitted, and the otherwise valuable recyclable commodities are buried in landfills or burned.  According to a Tellus Institute study, if recycling levels in the U.S. reached 75 percent, it would reduce carbon emissions equivalent to removing 50 million cars from U.S. roads each year and would create 2.3 million net domestic jobs.  DB: What would you like to see done?  MH: The primary solution to fix recycling and to help manufacturers reuse materials versus using finite resources is to have standardized labels on recycling bins throughout society. Consider the analogy: We only have to go through driver’s education once, and then we can drive safely for the rest of our lives because every road sign in the U.S. is standardized.  Even though recycling programs are different from one community to the next, there can be standardized labels for every type of sorting system. Speed limits are different from one road to the next, but the standardized signs allow us to change our speed accordingly wherever we are.  DB: What’s been your experience when the information is presented more consistently?  MH: There are nearly nine million standardized labels displayed on recycling bins throughout the U.S. today — and they work! Consider a few examples:  When Bank of America donated standardized labels for all the bins at Orlando’s public K-12 schools, recycling levels for the school district increased 90 percent and the district saved $369,000 in trash hauling fees in the first year alone.  Since starting to implement the standardized-label solution statewide, Rhode Island has already experienced a 20 percent decrease in contaminated and rejected truckloads in their recycling facility.  Despite having millions of visitors from all over the world, Yosemite National Park’s contamination levels in their recycling bins have decreased to less than 8 percent since displaying the standardized labels on their bins.  U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis, Minn., went from a 20 percent recycling level that was plagued with contamination to a new recycling level of 83 percent during game days with almost no contamination thanks to the standardized labels. As a result, the stadium hosted the first zero-waste Super Bowl in history.  Some of the hotels and theme parks at the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida saw a doubling or tripling of their recycling rates after implementing the standarized-label solution for their 90,000 employees.  DB: What can individuals do?  MH: Reduce, reuse and keep recycling! Always recycle these basics: empty metal cans, clean office paper and newspaper, clean and flattened cardboard, empty plastic bottles and jugs with necks, and if your community still accepts glass, recycle your empty glass jars and bottles.  Never put batteries, plastic bags, dishware, clothing, furniture, electronics, hoses, needles, prescription bottles, food waste or food-soiled paper in your recycle bin, unless instructed. Instead, contact your county to find out where to properly recycle, compost, donate and dispose of those items.   DB: What can policymakers or other leaders who care about recycling do to try to save the industry?  MH: First, above all, cities, counties, states, businesses, schools, airports, sports stadiums and so forth should begin using the standardized labels on their recycling bins to make it possible for the public to begin recycling properly. Businesses and municipalities should insist that their recycling hauler begin using standardized labels. And policymakers should consider outlawing conflicts of interest in the recycling industry, if such conflicts are hindering progress.  David Bornstein is the author of “How to Change the World,” which has been published in 20 languages, and “The Price of a Dream: The Story of the Grameen Bank,” and a co-author of “Social Entrepreneurship: What Everyone Needs to Know.” To receive email alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 