Not long after the debut of Disability, the Times’s Opinion series, in August 2016, careful readers began noticing what seemed to be an unusual trend: Among the many writers the series had attracted were several working poets. This was not a surprise to me — I am one of those poets, and a big part of my life involves work with other poets with disabilities.  Sometime last year, the editor of this series, Peter Catapano, and I resolved to put together a selection of poems — a sort of digital chapbook or zine — that could be published here as part of the series. The result is below: work from 10 poets, myself included, with illustrations provided by LAND Studio & Gallery in Brooklyn (funded by the League Education and Treatment Center), which nurtures the artistic talents of people with developmental disabilities. The sampling is very small, and for practical reasons excludes many gifted poets, but it is a start and will hopefully open the door to a better understanding of the significant role people with disabilities play in the literary and visual arts in this country. I am the author of four books of verse, as well as an editor, along with Michael Northen and Sheila Black, of “Beauty Is a Verb: The New Poetry of Disability.” I am also at work on a biography of the influential 20th-century American poet Larry Eigner, who had cerebral palsy, as I do, and whose body of work consists of more than 3,000 poems. In 2017, Sheila Black, Connie Voisine and I formed the nonprofit organization Zoeglossia to further help poets with disabilities publish their work.  In my view, poetry is the most organic art form; it does not require money or physical labor. A poem doesn’t need to follow any particular grammar rules; it is the record of one’s own experience of the singular mind and/or body, a singular voice. For many of us, it is also a way of “being in the world,” a world that in many ways was not made for us and actively resists our participation. Through poetry, we are able to remake and reinvent that world.  How you bisected me — the elegance of the scars.The disease? It was not chemical.You could not cure it.I cling to this chill.Watch how I unfurlbefore it, flag of myself,a mirror distorted. This body —it is nothing. In an instantI could transform it.Now it is a lake spreadingoutward, now small and blank,a flat stone poisedin a hand. Now it breaks apart,only the grains of it.Listen, how they drift and scratch.The old story, the formsthat were broken are still here.Now they reassemble, a buzz,a communion.They promise me courage,other virtues, the rough shield,freedom from pain. They tell meI am this, or this —calcium, magnesium,a vitamin that is missing, blue phosphorus burning.Chips fall from a chisel.Joints burst into loudred flower. A bird fliesout of my mouth,into the ceiling.  “Look at those eyes,” she warbles,as I settle myself and my guideacross from her on the bus.“What kind of dog is that?”I am about to answerwhen a man farther back clears his throatand says, “Yellow Labrador.”If he’s going to speak for me,at least he knows his breeds.But he knows more than that—he knows their innermost lives.He says, “Saddest dogs in the world.”I wouldn’t presume to know that,but we live in a free country;people can think what they want.“Takes six years to train them.”He sounds like he enjoyshaving tidbits of knowledge to share.There’s only one problem; he’s wrong:it’s actually more like six months.Fortunately for him,we live in a democracy,where opinion is equal to fact,and we all have the right to vote.  It’s 5:23 a.m. again. The birdschirp mirthlessly.Their tongues are listless.The performance nearlystopswhen you, singingto God’s dogs,fall out of tune.The show goes on —on another morning,in a different room. No subway delays.Another heat wave.Only one mass shooting — in the middle of nowhere.No worries:the child gunned down,her killer and townhave meltedinto a warmingiceberg in the Arctic.Don’t be alarmed:new studies show:brain freeze, combinedwith existential dread,boosts your immune system.Welcome to the Age of Ice Cream.  What is that green vase trying to bewith knives poking out where there could have been roses?A government transforming before our eyes.The recipe windowed by olive oil spills:Pine nuts, garlic, holy basil for depression.Why does the AC sound like a trainplowing through the back wall?Sixteen million people is two New York Cities.What if they get cancer? How will they pay?What if _____ goes back to the nursing home?I wondered, as a child learning history,how those men could do what they didto the Indians and slaves, to women’s bodiesand souls? My feet are on the low filing cabinetnear the desk: they are slender and strong,though the pinkies lean in and dependon the others in exchange for the symbolicbalance they give. I need to lower my ceiling,grow a thick skin. They treat us like enemies,but we’re also Americans. I’m so new to this feeling;with my whiteness I can fadeinto the fascist front if I choose.I’m in a black chair that feels like a cockpit,and the sunset, when I squint, turns to crossfire.It’s as if I’ve never seen a raisin until now.Let me tell you what it looks like in detail.  For Juanita “Nanny” HicksAfter Cathy Linh Che I let the rigid syllablescontaminate my veinsthe cluttered room quakestil nothing is lefton the tables or the shelvesthe color weeps from the wallsthe waves beneath the floorwake rise crashand I am withoutanchornow alonewithin grief’s craterI shut off the TV’s clattering mouthsit on the floorwith the silencerising like smokeall of its space and fumesfilling the living room the kitchen climbing the stairsI sit still quietlet the world finish shiftinglet the names of those who mothered mefade to past tense  Last days of wintercarry his father’s ashes—blossoms: white, pink, red.Do people tireof cherry trees because treesblossom every spring?Afterthoughts — a teaseof blossoms, fallen beforethe rise of summer.  I am not suppose to be herein this body,herespeaking to you.My mere presenceof erratic moving limbsand drooling smileused to be scrubbedoff the public pavement.Ugly laws used to beon many U.S. cities’ law books,beginning in Chicago in 1867,stating that “any person who isdiseased, maimed, mutilated,or in any way deformedso as to be an unsightly or disgusting object,or an improper person to be allowedin or on the streets, highways, thoroughfares,or public places in this city,shall not therein or thereonexpose himself to public view,under the penalty of $1 for each offense.”Any person who looked like mewas deemed disgustingand was locked awayfrom the eyes of the upstanding citizens.I am too pretty for some Ugly Laws,Too smooth to be shut in.Too smart and eclecticfor any box you put me in.My swagger is too boldto be swept up in these public streets.You can stare at me all you want.No cop will buss in my headand carry me away to an institution.No doctor will diagnose mea helpless invalid with an incurable disease.No angry mob with clubs and torcheswill try to run me out of town.Whatever you do,my roots are rigidlike a hundred-year-old tree.I will stay right hereto glare at your ugly face too.  I hear their painful cries jut up from cracks on the street.The block is a scorching frying pan,frying my brothers on the pavement.Our bodies are etched on the concrete,blood drenched as permanent ink.Chalk should not outline our death bedor a body bag be our first casket.Bullets lurch out of guns,slice the air, andpierce the thin borders of our black skin.Eat away at our muscle and bones,borough through sinews and blood vessels,until it reaches and stops our hearts.It is not just the gang member on the cornerwhose aim we have to dodge,but also police on the beatwhose itchy trigger fingersleave us with our brain mattersplattered on the concrete.Now we have to watch out for the neighborhood watchmen.The wanna-be-cops who think we are foreign to our own neighborhood.Trayvon had a hoodie on to protect him from the rain,but it didn’t protect him from the bullet from Zimmerman’s gun.Old George just couldn’t help being a deadly Don Quixote,and shoot at every black boy,claiming he was a hardened criminal.My coco skin is not a target for your gun.It is the sacred encasing of God’s masterpiecethat gives warmth and joy to every loved one it touches.No bullet will destroy what God has made immortal.We will all rise again one day to walk under the sun.  for Mel and Timothy The day after the terrorist attack,I took out Girly Man and reada poem about 9/11, and I thought about exactness.My body is stuck in traffic memory.Two days out, and everyone has lost interest.Only eight people died, no guns.It’s only an inner-city school, after all.Not much of a tragedy in a wealthof sad news.When you are in trauma, you go to the nurse.So, I went to the nurse. I sat in his garden,and he told me some storieswhile I drank the last of the coffee with milk.The nurse’s husband, Timothy, held my hand.They bickered, which, under the circumstances,was charming. I felt so small,just a tiny sliver of barely a woman; like Joan Didion.I can’t even think of the right word to describewhat happened: Incident? Attack? Accident?The words that keep popping in my mindare “out of sorts.”The nurse laughed when I said, recalcitrant.Up the stairs in the tiny apartment, not really large enoughfor two grown men, a grumpy Chihuahua, and a random cat,the nurse showed me a book Jane Jacobs inscribed to him.After, Timothy walked me up the street to work,as if I were not a professor, but a childdragging her feet on the first day of school.  All those streamerskaleidoscopic sky wheelswavering prisms, luminous.So many impressionsthe moments way and backwhen spinning never stopped.Incapable speech, sense.Earthquake sleep.Patterns in dark/light.Knowing the moment just before.We believed them awakenings,beautiful meaning, the stuff of stars.Just one more little evil the forceps left.    I.its back is broken no way it will survive the nightchildish unknowing i stroked the mottle-brown slick of the squirrel’s dew drenched fur  bent a wire frame from the muselets that cork a champagne bottle’s breath threaded tiny rubber wheels to carry its body’s weighti was so assured of survivalunable to comprehend the minute body still as spring morning against the smell of burning eggs i buried it beneath the drivewaymarked the site with a feeble cross had not yet decided on a namethought i considered lucky II.i wake amid the fractures of my own body of slow & untidy decline the first time i walked with a cane this felt like a small extinctiontook so long before i could name this new growth second limb mine sometimes i dream of atrophythe geography of this skin  when i no longer recognize it as my ownsometimes the dream ends with my body wrapped in a wire frame hard black rubber teaching callousesdown the center of my palms i fear this a kind of death an unfamiliar burialcan almost hear pity edging into a doctor’s voicei am not certain you will ever walk again Art direction and design by Jim Datz; artwork courtesy of LAND Studio & Gallery in Brooklyn. CONTRIBUTORS Jennifer Bartlett is the author of “Hindrances of a Householder” and other books, as well as two essays for Disability, “Longing for the Male Gaze” and “Disability and the Right to Choose.”  Sheila Black is the author, most recently, of "Iron, Ardent,” a book of poems, and the Disability essays “Passing My Disability On to My Children” and “Trying to Embrace a Cure.”  Allison Hedge Coke is a distinguished professor of creative writing at the University of California at Riverside, the editor of several anthologies and the author of seven books, including “Streaming,” a poetry collection.  Kenny Fries is the author, most recently, of the memoir “In the Province of the Gods” and “In the Gardens of Japan: A Poem Sequence.” His Disability essay “The Nazis’ First Victims Were the Disabled” was published in 2017.  torrin a. greathouse is the author of the forthcoming book of poems “boy/girl/ghost.”  Camisha L. Jones is the author of “Flare” and the managing director at Split This Rock. Lateef McLeod is a student in the Anthropology and Social Change doctoral program at the California Institute for Integral Studies. He is the author of “A Declaration of a Body of Love.”  Daniel Simpson is the author of “School for the Blind” and co-author, with his wife, Ona Gritz, of “Border Songs: A Conversation in Poems.” He contributed two essays, “Space Travel: A Vision” and “A Girlfriend of My Own,” to the Disability series. Ellen McGrath Smith teaches at the University of Pittsburgh. She is the author of “Nobody’s Jackknife," a book of poems on yoga and alcoholism published in 2015.  Kathi Wolfe is the author of “The Uppity Blind Girl Poems” and a contributor to the Washington Blade. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 