The decision was made instantly. My son Edward was in Rome for the second leg of Liverpool’s Champions League soccer semifinal on May 2. I was at home in Brooklyn, pretending to prepare for a class, but really watching the game. We are devoted fans of the Liverpool Football Club. We texted throughout the game. Although Liverpool lost the match against Roma, we won the tie over two legs, allowing us to advance to the Champions League final on May 26, when we would face the mighty Real Madrid.  At the Champions final, Liverpool’s first in 11 years, we would have the chance to win the most important soccer competition in the world — yes, the world. Although the World Cup would be starting in June, the top European clubs that compete in the Champions League are, as every serious soccer fan knows, much stronger than any of the national teams. The Champions League is the bigger prize.  Edward and I had to watch the final together. But where and how? We reviewed the options. The game was in Kiev. We couldn’t get tickets. We tried to score passes to watch the final on a giant screen at Liverpool’s Anfield Stadium, but the event sold out. What about a London pub? Every bar in the city was going to be heaving with bodies, and we needed to focus on the game. So we settled on watching at my son’s place in Brixton in South London.  I flew to the city and met Ed in a bar at Brixton’s Ritzy Cinema where we drank our first beer. It was three hours until kickoff. The air in London was rich, summery and humid, with a looming threat of storms. We ate Thai food in Brixton Market surrounded by a hubbub of vape smoke and the pleasant hum of shoppers. Then we picked up some beer at Sainsbury’s supermarket and headed to Edward’s place to watch.  We dominated the game for the first 25 minutes. Then Sergio Ramos, Real Madrid’s ever-smiling captain, wrestled our star forward, Mohamed “Mo” Salah, to the ground in an arm lock, crushing him with his weight. Ramos knew what he was doing: eliminating Liverpool’s best player from the game. Salah left the pitch in tears with a busted shoulder. It was a deeply cynical move and should have been punished with a red card or possibly life imprisonment. But, unbelievably, no foul was called. After Salah’s exit, we lost our rhythm and never regained it.  In the end, we lost calamitously, almost comically, with two inexplicable errors from our otherwise excellent goalkeeper, Loris Karius, and an astonishing goal (courtesy of a bicycle kick) from Real Madrid’s Gareth Bale. But our fans, decked out all in red, were magnificent throughout, massively outnumbering Madrid’s supporters and singing our songs until the bitter end: “Mo Salah, Mo Salah, Mo Salah running down the wing … the Egyptian king.”  It’s difficult to describe the feeling after losing a game like this: We felt stunned, empty, with no desire to speak much. Ed and I sat quietly and drank more beer. I suggested feebly that we go to the pub, but Ed declined, saying he wasn’t feeling it. Nor was I, truthfully. At that moment, like a good metaphor, a vast storm broke over South London, sending rivers of rain into the streets.  What does being a soccer fan teach us about being human? It provides us with a living, breathing community of fellow fans, and with a sense of identity and belonging, even if that belonging is virtual, circulating across social networks. For Liverpool supporters, fandom also offers a set of values: compassion, internationalism, decency, honor, self- respect and respect for others, even Manchester United fans (well, sometimes).  Soccer fandom binds us together in love. It gives us access to a rich, commonly held history that is also intensely personal. My grandmother has a Liverpool Football Club crest on her gravestone. Soccer was the only thing I could talk about sensibly with my father until his death. Eighty percent of my texting and talking with my son is about the team we love. That’s a century and counting of history.  Millions of fans all over the world have similar sets of experiences. And these experiences link together into a vast collective that constitutes the cosmos of fandom. The fans are a living archive. Players come and go, but the fans stay, creating Liverpool’s existential memory. Without them, the game is nothing. With them, it is more than a game.  But mainly being a fan is about learning to accept failure and bewildering disappointment. To lose to Real Madrid in the way we did was heartbreaking. Yet our fans are closer than ever. Liverpool’s club song is a moving rendition of the Rodgers and Hammerstein show tune “You’ll Never Walk Alone.” In loss, we are still together. My son and I have watched Liverpool lose many times — to Sevilla in the 2016 Europa League final, to A.C. Milan in the 2007 Champions League final. And we will lose again. The important thing is being together when we do. Soccer teaches you the value of solidarity.  The only religious commitment I have is to the Liverpool Football Club. I worship the team’s gods, heroes and ancestors, recount its myths, and engage in the often highly elaborate social ritual of watching the club at least once a week on television. But if soccer is a religion, then it is a polytheistic one. Soccer encourages us to believe powerfully in our favorite team — its gods, myths and legends — while acknowledging the equally powerful beliefs of other fans. Everything goes wrong with religion when a belief in the exclusivity of one’s local god merges with a universalistic dogma that one’s own god is the only true god. In my humble opinion, polytheism is vastly preferable to monotheism.  And speaking of local gods, before saying goodbye to my son in London, we went to see the David Bowie mural outside the Brixton subway station. Bowie spent the first six years of his life close to that spot. We chatted and took photos of each other, and I examined the multiple inscriptions on the mural. Somehow, at that moment, for reasons difficult to piece together, life made sense.  Being human is being a fan.  Simon Critchley is the author of many books, including “Memory Theater.” He is a co-editor, with Peter Catapano, of “The Stone Reader: Modern Philosophy in 133 Arguments” and “Modern Ethics in 77 Arguments.” Now in print: “Modern Ethics in 77 Arguments,” and “The Stone Reader: Modern Philosophy in 133 Arguments,” with essays from the series, edited by Peter Catapano and Simon Critchley, published by Liveright Books. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.