Toying with access to classified information has become the White House’s go-to method for drawing attention away from screw-ups and scandals. On July 23, the White House faced a grim news cycle in response to President Trump’s disastrous Helsinki summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Then the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, announced that Mr. Trump was “looking to take away” the security clearances of a number of former top officials who had criticized him, among them the former C.I.A. director John Brennan.  Early this week, the president flung insults at his former aide Omarosa Manigault Newman as speculation heated up over the existence of a tape of Mr. Trump using a noxious racial slur during his tenure on “The Apprentice.” Then on Wednesday, Ms. Sanders began her press briefing with a notice that the president had stripped Mr. Brennan of his clearance.  It has become cliché to complain about the Trump administration’s use of distractions to divert the press from unwelcome news, but this time the White House didn’t even put any effort into hiding it. The document announcing Mr. Trump’s decision was dated July 26 — suggesting strongly that the White House had been saving it for a rainy day. (After this was pointed out, the administration quickly issued a second, undated copy.) What's more, Mr. Trump himself told The Wall Street Journal that he had revoked Mr. Brennan's clearance because of the former official's role in leading “the rigged witch hunt.”  On one level, this particular distraction is vindictive but unimportant. John Brennan will be fine, and so will most of the other officials — including James Comey, Sally Yates and James Clapper — whose clearances Ms. Sanders threatened during the briefing. They have the power and visibility to continue criticizing the president as loudly as they like on cable news — and on Twitter, where Mr. Brennan has taken to attacking Mr. Trump as “treasonous” and “disgraceful.”  The real risk is that this will strike fear into the many civil servants and government contractors who need security clearances for their jobs. As with the humiliation of Mr. Strzok, the message here for less prominent public servants is that the president has the power to destroy your livelihood if you voice dissent. And Mr. Trump appears to have taken his action without going through any process or consulting the relevant intelligence leadership, making this another exercise in unilateral norm-busting. When Mr. Trump first threatened Mr. Brennan’s clearance in July, the speaker of the House, Paul Ryan, dismissed it as “just trolling.” He may have been righter than he knew: Wednesday’s announcement was thick with unintentional irony. In listing Mr. Brennan’s sins, Mr. Trump accused the former C.I.A. director of “erratic conduct and behavior,” “frenzied commentary” and “wild outbursts on the internet and television.” Sound familiar? More on John Brennan. This June 2018 profile from Mattathias Schwartz digs into Mr. Brennan’s long, complicated pre-Trump history. The tweets that so outraged Mr. Trump are a reflection of a man trying — often clumsily — to find his footing as a public figure after a career of secrecy. In The Times today, Mr. Brennan responds to the president and writes that "Mr. Trump’s claims of no collusion are, in a word, hogwash." The Manafort trial nears its end. The court heard closing arguments yesterday in the trial of the former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort — the first case in the Russia investigation to actually go to trial. Now it’s up to the jury to decide whether the government proved beyond a reasonable doubt that Mr. Manafort engaged in bank and tax fraud. If you’re looking to catch up on the trial, here’s a quick reading list: Cristian Farias on the cantankerous Judge T.S. Ellis III; Robin Givhan on Mr. Manafort’s $15,000 ostrich-leather jacket; Emily Cochrane on what it’s been like to cover the trial for The New York Times; and Franklin Foer’s long profile of Mr. Manafort’s rise and fall. This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. David Leonhardt, the newsletter’s author, is on a break until Aug. 27. While he’s away, several outside writers are taking his place. This week’s author is Quinta Jurecic  (@qjurecic), managing editor of Lawfare, the national-security publication. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 