PARIS — In June, I got an email from a Frenchwoman I know. I’ll call her Hélène.  “I am now embarked on a fascinating trip as I will no longer be around at the end of the summer. I am serene and ready. I would be happy to share some thoughts on death if you could come and see me. Pick a nice day, we’ll chat in the garden.” Hélène is a teacher in her 70s whom I’d met a few years earlier when she invited me to speak to her class. She became a friendly informant on French culture, with a distinctly Parisian way of sounding familiar, then suddenly saying something altogether foreign. She once complained that when she invites Americans to dinner, they phone ahead with their food preferences. She couldn’t understand why she wasn’t supposed to intervene to help her overweight American students slim down. She’s a devoted grandmother in a long and satisfying marriage, but she once confided that she also has “a private life.” “There’s a time for work, there’s a time for your family, and then there is a time for yourself,” she explains.  Hélène has now surprised me again with the way she plans to, as the French say, “disappear.” (I knew that she had cancer, but I hadn’t realized that it was terminal or that she had imminent plans to die.) On the Métro to her house, I remind myself that we’re not close. She has summoned me as a journalist. I won’t get too involved.  When I arrive, I see that Hélène — always fit and attractive — has grown thin, and she struggles to walk. Yet she looks radiant, with a post-chemo bob that sets off her eyes. She’s in excellent spirits, too, and eager to hear about me. I’ve heard older Frenchwomen say that the secret of aging is to be “comfortable in your own age.” Now I see that it’s also possible to be comfortable in your own state.  Over lunch (I’ve made no food requests), Hélène describes the complicated logistics of dying in Paris. They’re a lot like living in Paris. She was terrified of dying in August, when Parisians are on vacation, so “at my burial there would be one dog and three people.” She was relieved when a funeral planner promised that he’d refrigerate her until September.  She has drawn up a guest list for her memorial service — called a cérémonie d’adieu — and selected an “elegant” crepe de Chine dress to wear for it. She had hoped to be cremated afterward and then sprinkled into the Seine, but “with this stupid and authoritarian state, you don’t have the right to do what you want with your ashes.” She decided to have them buried instead, but she discovered that funeral plots in Paris are scarce: The city receives 5,000 requests annually, for 150 plots. One city official is in charge of who gets in. There is plenty of room in the suburbs, but for Hélène, “that was absolutely out of the question. Me, I want Montparnasse,” the cemetery in southern Paris that holds luminaries including Charles Baudelaire, Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir.  Hélène takes out her phone and together we admire a snapshot she took of the grassy, sun-dappled plot that she would like to get, though she’s not allowed to reserve it. “I hope that between now and September, no one is going to take this place,” she says.  It’s surreal to talk about a funeral plot as if it's a table at a trendy Parisian restaurant. And haven’t I come to discuss more existential issues? I try to shift the conversation.  “It must be frightening to think of not being there,” I say.  “Yes, it’s unbearable! Otherwise they’re going to have to get a boat and take me out to sea.” I realize Hélène thought I meant the burial plot. I gently clarify that she must be afraid of not being alive.  “No, not at all,” she replies. “I’m impatient to go. I’m ready. It’s enough. It does not interest me to watch my body fall apart.”  I’m struck by the paradox: Hélène is eager to die, but she’s intensely alive and curious about her experience. And even now, she has a very French way of keeping track of precisely what she does and doesn’t like. Instead of a bucket list, she delights in small daily moments, like being carried by a handsome fireman after she recently injured herself at home. (“I said to him, ‘Come back and have a glass of wine here!’”)  She also takes pleasure in editing her life, including clearing her drawers of all but “important” possessions. At first, some colleagues came to visit out of “morbid curiosity.” Now she sees only beloved friends and former students, and several boyfriends from her youth. “We know it’s the last time, so we tell each other things, there’s no reason to hide anything.” When discussing death with them, “I put people at ease, there’s no taboo.”  Hélène is enjoying her palliative care. With her doctors and nurses, too, “we really have profound conversations. Because they’re in life and death all the time.” (One issue she doesn’t need to ponder is money: France’s national insurance covers all her medical expenses, including the physical therapist and hospice nurse who visit her at home several times a week. She accepted an at-home hospital bed but refused the state-financed housekeeper and facials.)  I’d expected Hélène to offer striking new insights about life and death. But people have been dying for millenniums. Why should there be great surprises now?  Hélène’s insights are modest: Don’t confuse your own joys and preferences with anyone else’s. Observe your own mind and experiences carefully and arrange your life — and your death — accordingly.  “That’s it,” she says quietly. “It’s to try to find a truth that is really yours, nothing but yours. And not to act out of conformism.” By doing this, she has reached the pinnacle of female Frenchness: She’s une femme libre — a free woman. Over dessert, my journalistic reserve cracks. I realize that Hélène isn’t just a friendly informant; she’s a friend. And there is no one else like her. I don’t want her to disappear.  “What if you’re still alive in September?” I ask, hopefully.  “Please don’t wish that for me,” she replies. She detests being dependent, and she can’t be cured.  “I hope you’ll come to my funeral,” Hélène says, walking over to embrace me before I leave.  I tell her the truth: I wouldn’t miss it. Pamela Druckerman, the author of “Bringing Up Bébé” and “There Are No Grown-Ups: A Midlife Coming-of-Age Story,” is a contributing opinion writer. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 