As of Thursday, 565 migrant children — 24 of them under the age of five — remained separated from their parents after the Trump administration tore families apart at the United States-Mexico border. Though the administration backed away from its “zero tolerance” immigration enforcement policy after prolonged outcry, this level of casual cruelty is not so easily cleaned up: It lingers both in the children who have yet to see their parents again and in the lasting trauma done to even reunified families. Today, a federal judge will hold a hearing and listen to the American Civil Liberties Union’s concerns that the government is not allowing parents who were deported without their children to return to the United States to seek reunification and asylum. Over the last week, I’ve stepped in for David Leonhardt in writing this newsletter; today is the last day you’ll hear from me. The pain and terror of the family separations story has ground on throughout the time I’ve been writing here. But instead I’ve focused on topics closer to the Russia investigation and President Trump’s authoritarian impulses. I noted yesterday the tendency of journalists and commentators to decry certain behavior by the Trump administration as “distractions” from more important issues. My day-to-day work at Lawfare focuses on a topic that many do consider a distraction: the special counsel investigation and the president’s destruction of the democratic foundation of our society. Among some Democratic Party leaders and writers and activists on the left, it’s become common to situate airy concerns over “norms” as subservient to the work of opposing policies that take bread out of people’s mouths and children out of their parents’ arms.  I would argue that the erosion of American democracy at the hands of a would-be authoritarian — and the possibility that the president’s campaign collaborated knowingly with a hostile government in order to swing an election — should be of concern to everyone. But feverishly speculating on the special counsel’s next move when young children are separated from their parents has a ring of absurdity. And when someone is hungry or fearing deportation, demanding a focus on the Russia investigation shows a numbness to the urgency of human pain. This is a question without an easy answer. The Trump presidency is a time of too many horrors — everything is a distraction from everything else, because it all matters. To some extent we can rely on the division of labor. There’s a reason I didn’t spend the last week writing about deportations and asylum-seekers; there are immigration lawyers and reporters for that. But that also means holding onto a level of humility about the vastness of what we don’t have time to see in full.  More on immigration. BuzzFeed News reports that government attorneys are seeking to reopen thousands of deportation cases that courts had suspended — foreshadowing a potential surge in deportations. If you’re interested in the A.C.L.U. lawsuit I described at the beginning of the newsletter, Ms. L v. ICE, you can’t do much better than following the work of Dara Lind, an immigration reporter at Vox. At Lawfare, we’ve been keeping an open-access list of all court documents in family separation cases as the litigation moves forward. And more on Trump. In response to the president’s revocation of the former C.I.A. director John Brennan’s security clearance, the retired Navy admiral William McRaven — who oversaw the 2011 raid in which Osama bin Laden was killed — wrote an open letter to Mr. Trump: “I would consider it an honor if you would revoke my security clearance as well, so I can add my name to the list of men and women who have spoken up against your presidency.” This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. David Leonhardt, the newsletter’s author, is on a break until Aug. 27. While he’s away, several outside writers are taking his place. This week’s author is Quinta Jurecic  (@qjurecic), managing editor of Lawfare, the national-security publication. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 