One day last summer, California’s most powerful Democrat stood beside the state’s most famous Republican — a fourth-generation Californian and an Austrian immigrant silhouetted against the San Francisco skyline. They had come together to celebrate a 10-year extension of the state’s signature program to curb greenhouse gas emissions. Gov. Jerry Brown praised Arnold Schwarzenegger for the role that he had played a decade earlier, as governor, in starting the environmental initiative. Mr. Schwarzenegger in turn hailed Governor Brown as a visionary leader and shrewd negotiator who had cobbled together bipartisan support crucial to passing the landmark deal.  “We have a functional government here in California,” Mr. Schwarzenegger said, “where Democrats and Republicans work together.” The event six months into the Trump presidency highlighted California’s status as a deep-blue state prepared to defy the administration on issues like environmental regulation. That story line has only accelerated; almost 40 lawsuits have been filed by California, challenging federal policies. But the bond between the two governors on display underscored a more fundamental, long-lasting force in the Golden State: the Party of California. “The core principle of the Party of California is that the state — its history and heritage, its environment, its economy and, above all, the well-being of its people — is worth imagining, worth struggling for,” wrote the historian Kevin Starr, who popularized the phrase. “When things get politically intractable, as they frequently do, everyone is entitled to appeal to the Party of California as the premise and matrix of political agreement.” Mr. Starr played several roles in the public life of the state — newspaper columnist, history professor, political adviser and state librarian, a Democrat appointed by a Republican governor. When Mr. Schwarzenegger was elected in 2003, Mr. Starr wrote an op-ed in which he urged the Republican to follow the example of great governors who embraced a spirit of bipartisan creativity: Hiram Johnson, Earl Warren, Pat Brown and Ronald Reagan. That spirit endures, though it is tested in the hyperpartisan world of 2018. The increasingly marginalized state Republican Party has pinned its hopes to protect vulnerable congressional representatives on a November ballot measure that would repeal a gas tax that funds transportation repairs. To repeal the tax, said Governor Brown, one of its architects, would be “un-Californian.” Jerry Brown soaked up that ethos starting in childhood from a man whom few could rival in his love for California. Pat Brown championed the construction of roads, dams and public universities, his buoyant personality matching the expansive mood of the postwar era. To pass the water bond that would finance the largest public works program in the country, Pat Brown partnered with the Republican mayor of Los Angeles. Among his many friendships with Republicans, Mr. Brown cherished his friendship with Earl Warren. When Mr. Brown defeated Richard Nixon to win re-election in 1962, he and Mr. Warren toasted the victory. When Mr. Brown lost four years later to Ronald Reagan, Mr. Warren was dismayed and wrote to his friend, “You have given our state good, progressive government for eight years and that is all any man could have done.” Mr. Reagan also governed in the spirit of the Party of California. He campaigned as a tax-cutter, but he proposed the largest tax increase in the state’s history. He signed a law that legalized abortion and supported environmental initiatives that included creation of the Air Resources Board, which regulates emission standards. Mr. Schwarzenegger, another movie star elected governor, circulated Mr. Starr’s op-ed among his senior staff as a road map for the new administration. Mr. Schwarzenegger faced more crises than triumphs during his seven years in office, but Jerry Brown credits his predecessor for initiatives that Governor Brown adopted and advanced, like the cap-and-trade program to curb greenhouse gas emissions, a high-speed-train route, tunnels to draw water from north to south and circumvent the fragile Delta, and juvenile justice reform.  Jerry Brown modeled his second act after leaders on Mr. Starr’s list like Hiram Johnson, Earl Warren and his father, whom he identified as the most successful governors, “the people who built the state, who were innovators and who were not ideologues or people who were pigeonholed into one partisan box.”  In January, Governor Brown used his final State of the State address to highlight bipartisan accomplishments: global warming initiatives, changes to the pension and workers’ compensation systems, a state water bond, the “rainy day” fund.  In a state that has become so reliably Democratic that people forget that only four Democrats have been elected governor in modern times, the fastest-growing segment of California voters is those who decline to enroll in any political party. The independent voters outnumbered Republicans for the first time this year, a reflection of both shifting partisan allegiances and the historically weak nature of political parties in California. Among the state’s youngest registered voters, independents outnumber Democrats. They are the potential heirs to the tradition that goes back to California’s Gilded Age philosopher Josiah Royce, who preached the philosophy of loyalty that guided Governors Johnson, Warren, Reagan and Brown, father and son. The Party of California is part spiritual commitment to the idea that there is something special about this place, part pragmatic bow to the reality of governing the world’s fifth largest economy, a vast, diverse nation-state. Ever since California became the most populous state more than five decades ago, it has had more of almost everything: billionaires and homeless, agriculture and high tech, immigrants from almost any land. Republicans, a quarter of the registered voters, still number close to five million and dominate in districts that have sent to Congress prominent conservatives like Kevin McCarthy and Devin Nunes.  Even the young, iconoclastic Jerry Brown of the 1970s who set out to shake up Sacramento preached the “canoe theory” of governing: paddle a little to the left, a little to the right. Not every believer in the Party of California has been a great governor, nor is the philosophy alone sufficient to ensure success. But history suggests that it is a necessary starting point, in the words of Jerry Brown, the elder statesman, “to get down to business and do stuff.” If Gavin Newsom wins election in November, as expected, the next governor of California will be a San Francisco Democrat best known as an early champion of same-sex marriage, legalization of marijuana and universal health care. His election would mark the first transition since the 19th century between two Democratic administrations in Sacramento. An open question is whether the Party of California philosophy will prevail as well. Jerry Brown often invokes the words of a famous Jesuit to express his version of that philosophy: “Teilhard de Chardin said, ‘Whatever rises, converges.’ If we lift our minds and hearts and our imagination, we will converge around a sense of what’s good for all of us, what’s good for humanity, what’s good for the future generations.” Miriam Pawel is the author of the forthcoming “The Browns of California: The Family Dynasty That Transformed a State and Shaped a Nation” and “The Crusades of Cesar Chavez: A Biography.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 