In 1971, Richard Nixon was president, the war in Vietnam was dragging on and the People’s Republic of China was trying to assume its place on the United Nations Security Council — one of many instances in which poor countries and former colonies began asserting themselves on the world stage. There was little public support in America for foreign aid. Congress failed to pass legislation authorizing foreign aid that year. Nevertheless, the United States started a new development agency, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, or OPIC, which helps American companies invest in poor countries around the world. (Among its biggest recent investments are a wind farm in Ukraine and a fund focused on healthcare and financial services in Africa and Asia.) Since OPIC was established, the relationship between rich countries like the United States and the developing world has changed dramatically. In the 1970s, most money flowing into developing countries was in the form of aid. That paradigm has been flipped on its head; the vast majority today is foreign direct investment. And yet, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation has remained largely the same. Other wealthy countries have created modern development finance institutions, but the United States has not. That may soon change. A bill making its way through Congress would create a new, better funded and more powerful agency that would effectively replace OPIC. This is perhaps the most significant shift in American development policy since the founding of the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief in 2003. Development experts — some of whom have pushed for years to modernize OPIC — are the most surprised. They did not expect this kind of support from a White House that has proposed slashing foreign aid budgets or a president who has made derogatory comments about countries in Africa. But there are concerns that under its current chief executive, a businessman and big Republican donor, the agency could lose sight of its core mission to help poor countries develop. The new OPIC is the result of an unlikely combination of events: concern about the influence of China and a moment of rare bipartisan cooperation in Congress. The agency would combine OPIC with some elements of the United States Agency for International Development, creating a new, independent government agency with expanded authority, including a higher spending cap and the ability to make equity investments. The changes are long overdue. Similar European institutions were established years ago. But that’s not the main reason for this dramatic shift. The new OPIC is seen as a way to counter China’s growing influence in Asia and Africa. Representative Ed Royce, Republican of California, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said recently that China’s financing is undermining democratic governance and has left countries mired in debt. With this new agency, Mr. Royce said, the United States can offer “a competitive alternative to the state-directed approach of Beijing and Moscow.” The new agency has a powerful champion in OPIC’s chief executive, Ray Washburne, who has close ties to the White House. A Texas-based restaurant and real estate investor, he was vice chairman of the Trump Victory Committee and head of the transition’s commerce team. He meets regularly with the White House, and he asked for and received an enclosed area to process classified information, something no previous OPIC chief executive has had. In its first budget proposal, the Trump administration suggested eliminating OPIC. But Mr. Washburne made it clear that he wanted to build it. “I had a lot of relationships up on the Hill, I had a lot of relationships within the White House from my experience working on the campaign,” he told me in an interview in June. “And so I was able to go in and really sell to the administration what OPIC is and should be and can be.” Mr. Washburne and OPIC’s allies in Congress plan to roughly double its total spending cap to $60 billion, and want to give the new agency the ability to make equity investments and lend in local currency, allowing it to work with a wider range of funding partners and companies. Still, there are significant concerns among development experts about the future of the agency. They notice that Mr. Washburne talks about OPIC as a foreign policy tool, but he rarely talks about how the new agency will improve health, livelihoods or infrastructure. They worry that investment deals will not get the scrutiny they need, and that those close to the administration might get preferential treatment. The legislation proposed for the new OPIC also initially lacked specific language about the future of OPIC’s environmental and social policies that protect local communities. (Those protections were added to the bill in committee.) Increasingly, poor countries want investment, not aid, from the United States. But with more money and more tools, the new OPIC must resist the temptation to focus on investment returns alone. If the agency veers away from its core mission, then the United States, and the world, would lose a potentially powerful tool for improving the lives of millions.