STANFORD, Calif. — The city of Birmingham, Ala., where some of the civil rights movement’s most consequential struggles took place 50 years ago, is now ground zero in a new 21st-century fight against economic inequality and racial oppression, with implications for communities of color across the country.   In a little-noted but profoundly important ruling, a federal appeals court recently issued a major decision resurrecting an innovative lawsuit brought by Birmingham fast-food workers against the state of Alabama. The suit charged that suburban white state legislators illegally barred a citywide minimum wage increase adopted in 2015. The Birmingham plaintiffs argued that the lawmakers discriminated against residents of the city, which is 74 percent black, with 32 percent of the population living below the federal poverty line.   The actions of Alabama’s white lawmakers should sound familiar: Today, 25 states across the country, predominantly Southern and border states, have similar laws on the books preventing localities from raising the minimum wage.   While state laws blocking local wage increases have proliferated, the Birmingham case is the first to directly challenge the racially discriminatory nature of the state measures. As the case moves forward, it could provide similar cities with a legal road map for challenging this modern-day tool of racial subjugation. These are the majority-black and -brown localities deprived by majority white state legislatures of the authority to enact local ordinances raising the wages of its residents.    The City Council in Birmingham, home to the state’s largest black population, voted to raise the city’s minimum wage to $10.10 an hour from the federal minimum of $7.25 following a campaign by civil rights and social service organizations and strikes by local fast-food workers as part of the Fight for $15 movement. Then, just days before the raise was to take effect, the state legislature rushed through a bill nullifying the authority of cities to adopt any local wage ordinances.   The State of Alabama argued that states frequently regulate the authority of cities and maintained that its actions had nothing to do with race. A district court initially dismissed the fast-food workers’ lawsuit saying the plaintiffs could not prove racial discrimination.    But last month, the Atlanta-based United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit noted the racial history of Alabama, the white-led state action to overturn Birmingham’s ordinance, and the state law’s discriminatory effect on the city’s majority-black population. The court held that Birmingham workers had presented a valid legal claim and compelling allegations of discrimination, and the ruling reinstated the lawsuit to allow the plaintiffs to prove their case, stressing that racial discrimination could take many forms.   “Today, racism is no longer pledged from the portico of the Capitol or exclaimed from the floor of the constitutional convention,” the court wrote in its unanimous decision. “[I]t hides, abashed, cloaked beneath ostensibly neutral laws and legitimate bases, steering government power toward no less invidious ends.”   Elected leaders in communities of color across the country have taken notice of this case, observing similarly discriminatory effects from state laws that handcuff their cities from raising pay.    Last year, then-Mayor Kasim Reed of Atlanta signed a legal brief supporting the lawsuit by Birmingham fast-food workers, noting that Georgia lawmakers have similarly prevented his city from raising its minimum wage. Atlanta is 54 percent black and has one of the highest income gaps in the nation.   And Atlanta’s mayor was not alone. The mayors of Gary, Ind., as well as Miami Gardens and Tallahassee in Florida, joined the brief supporting the lawsuit. They, too, are leaders of cities with large or majority-black and -brown residents and high rates of poverty that have been prevented from raising their minimum wages by overwhelmingly white state legislatures. The mayors stressed that urban populations face higher costs of living than others in their states and argued the economic benefits of raising local wages.   The court’s ruling is a victory for the more than 40,000 low-wage Birmingham residents who were robbed of a much-needed pay raise and who will now get their day in court.   But more profoundly, this case — originating in a town where America’s history of racial violence faced some of its most pivotal confrontations — could now open the door for communities of color across the country to challenge racially discriminatory laws that deny localities the power to improve the lives of people of color.   Lucas Guttentag, the founder and former national director of the American Civil Liberties Union Immigrants’ Rights Project, is a professor of the practice of law at Stanford Law School and a distinguished senior fellow at Yale Law School.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 