I was 5 years old when I first learned about DNA. My mother was talking to my sister about her “genes.” I was confused. She was wearing shorts, not jeans. But as soon as our mother explained that the genes you inherit have the same basic code, how all of earth’s living creatures are built from the same chemical foundation, I was hooked. Forty years later, I still find DNA to be the most fascinating scientific discovery. DNA was first identified by Friedrich Miescher, a Swiss physician, in 1869. Over the next 140 years, the scientific community made monumental discoveries that have led to our understanding of DNA and have shaped our ability to decode life on earth. But what has always amazed me most about these genetic discoveries is the simplicity and commonality of life.  As humans we often notice the differences among us, and between us and other species, but the larger truth is that we are all made of the same fundamental building blocks. Every living being is made from some combination of four chemicals: adenine, guanine, cytosine and thymine (or AGCTs), and only through a simple reworking of this combination of letters do we have the spectacular diversity of species on our planet.  Even with three billion letter combinations in nearly every one of our cells, there is just a 0.5 percent difference between my DNA and the DNA of any other person on the planet. And the larger variations that do exist in genetic coding are responsible for the diversity of the world’s species. While a banana, a mouse and a chimp look quite different from each other, as well as from you and me, their biological foundation and ours is still built from those four chemical letters: A, G, C and T. In fact, humans share about 60 percent of their DNA with a banana, 80 percent with a mouse and 96 percent with a chimp. A few simple switches in lettering and your AGCTs could have been the AGCTs of your neighbor or those of a banana. Potentially just as fascinating is the fact that DNA is not merely linked together by unchanging chemical chains; it evolves. Our DNA holds on to the past, learns from it and advances from one generation to the next. If we trace human DNA back thousands of years, we are able to identify common ancestors. This is why you can identify the particular paths followed by the women or men of your heritage based on your “haplogroup,” or the families of lineages that descend from a common ancestor. If we trace our genetic heritage back millions of years, we can use DNA to identify primate ancestors. Move back even farther — billions of years — and our DNA makes it possible for us to identify the origins of life on earth. Effectively, DNA is like a code book that contains the story of our entire genetic history, demonstrating how connected we are both to each other and to other forms of life on earth.  I am passionate about deciphering the code and understanding exactly how those four letters, having evolved over millions of years, are able to account for our similarity and also our spectacular diversity. It is incredibly exciting to study life’s blueprint during a time when it is within our grasp to understand what it really means. We must also recognize, however, that humans differ from all other living creatures in a fundamental way: Humans have the ability to imagine, innovate and create. This ability has allowed us to pioneer in extraordinary ways, but it has also led to impacts on the rest of our global community. So what makes us human? Although there is a clear scientific definition of the human species, our chemical foundations are no different than earth’s other organisms. Rather than fixating on the differences, I focus on the similarities. Ultimately though, humans are differentiated from the rest of life on earth by our ability to think and advance. As we pioneer we have a responsibility — a moral imperative — to not only understand the effect we are having on this world but also to step up and own that responsibility. I like to think that is what makes me human. Anne Wojcicki is a co-founder and CEO of 23andMe, a personal genomics and biotechnology company. Upcoming in The Big Ideas: essays by Ai Weiwei, Bernard-Henri Levy and others. Read the entire series here.  Now in print: “Modern Ethics in 77 Arguments,” and “The Stone Reader: Modern Philosophy in 133 Arguments,” with essays from the series, edited by Peter Catapano and Simon Critchley, published by Liveright Books. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 