Op-Docs ICE has triggered a perpetual state of fear among undocumented immigrants in the U.S. — even among those living in so-called sanctuary cities. By Paloma Martinez Ms. Martinez is a daughter of Mexican immigrants and a documentary filmmaker.  “There’s no sanctuary from federal law enforcement,” the head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement threatened on Fox in January. “California better hold on tight.”  In issuing threats as ominous as they were vague, he knew exactly what he was doing — and it’s working. ICE’s campaign of psychological manipulation has triggered a perpetual state of fear among undocumented immigrants in the United States, even among those who live in so-called sanctuary cities.  While ICE’s main intimidation tactic is raiding immigrants’ homes and businesses, to me it seems their influence is showing through just as clearly in the constant acts of self-policing their targets are now compelled to undertake. ICE’s menacing public statements and news of its enforcement campaigns has created widespread fear among undocumented people, pushing this already vulnerable community deeper into the margins. In the Bay Area, where I made this film, the San Francisco Rapid Response Network serves as the front line of defense on behalf of undocumented residents. The network, the first of its kind in the country, maintains a 24-hour hotline where residents can call to report a raid or suspected ICE presence in their neighborhood. From there, volunteers are dispatched to document the incident peacefully, gathering evidence to protect immigrants’ rights in a form of civilian oversight. Timing is essential. The faster the network can reach an immigrant in detention, the higher the chances of getting the person out. Many times, calls come in too late. Every time the president talks of a border wall or the head of ICE makes statements about ramping up enforcement, calls to the hotline spike. Much of the network’s time is diverted to combating rumors and absorbing hostility, mostly from area codes far outside California. My film explores this abstract, faceless world. Anonymous callers, their intentions unknown, punctuate the unpredictable movements I film across San Francisco, representing the sense of heightened uncertainty pervading these communities.  I know firsthand how fear can erode neighborhood unity and stifle progress. I grew up in the Near Northside neighborhood of Houston, a community of documented and undocumented immigrants where my parents settled after arriving from Mexico. Most families were of mixed status, so everyone kept their head down for fear of incriminating themselves or someone they loved. The consequences of this new normal are not limited to the immigrants targeted by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. When activities that make up the sweetness of daily life — taking your kids to school, eating at your favorite neighborhood diner, riding the train to work — are threatened, so too is the vibrant beauty of a place like San Francisco.  Yet after spending many months observing the tireless work of the Rapid Response Network, I also saw how a community’s response to adversity can bring neighbors closer together. Here, hundreds of volunteers from all over the city have interrupted their lives to stand by their neighbors — doing everything they can to ensure that here there is, in fact, sanctuary.  Paloma Martinez is an award-winning filmmaker based in Houston and a recent graduate of the Stanford University Documentary Film and Video M.F.A. program. Op-Docs is a forum for short, opinionated documentaries by independent filmmakers. Learn more about Op-Docs and how to submit to the series. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Op-Docs newsletter.