On Tuesday, Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former consigliere and a man who had a talent for ostentatious indifference, walked into federal court and pleaded guilty to eight felonies. Remember during the election when he was confronted on CNN with dismal polls suggesting his candidate was losing, and he scoffed, “Says who?” That time his bravado was warranted.  But his appearance before a judge was a remarkable reversal of fortune for the man who styled himself Mr. Trump’s attack dog and fixer, a man quick with a threat of a libel suit or a promise to destroy journalists who vexed him or his boss. Mr. Cohen was forced to abase himself before a roomful of reporters, admitting to a wide range of serious wrongdoing, including tax evasion and bank fraud — while also directly implicating the president of the United States in federal campaign finance violations. This preposterous age of manic news cycles — Mr. Cohen’s admission came on the same day that Paul Manafort, the president’s former campaign chairman, was convicted of eight counts of tax and bank fraud — weekly bombshells and improbable politics has left us deadened to amazing developments. So let me repeat it for emphasis and for history: The president’s personal lawyer pleaded guilty to a federal crime and testified under oath that the president told him to do it.  In the most explosive admissions, Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to committing two federal campaign finance violations on behalf of — and, according to Mr. Cohen, testifying under oath, “in coordination with and at the direction of” — President Trump. The charging document describes a scheme to pay off Karen McDougal, the former Playboy model, and the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels to buy their silence about their claims of affairs with Mr. Trump. Mr. Cohen admitted to arranging for American Media, Inc. — publisher of The National Enquirer — to pay Ms. McDougal $150,000 to keep her story quiet to protect the Trump campaign, thus causing a prohibited corporate campaign contribution.  Mr. Cohen also admitted to arranging to pay Ms. Daniels $130,000 for her silence. Because the payment was intended to influence the election by protecting Mr. Trump, this constituted an illegal contribution far in excess of the personal contribution limits.  Mr. Trump’s involvement wasn’t a necessary element to Mr. Cohen’s plea, but he supplied it anyway. That implicates the president directly in what might be called “collusion”: a conspiracy to commit a series of federal crimes, albeit not, in this case anyway, with Russians. What next for Mr. Cohen? Based on the calculations in his plea agreement, he’s facing a probable sentence of between three and five years in federal prison. He undoubtedly wants to shorten that. His plea agreement is not a “cooperation” agreement. It does not require him to help the government’s investigations, and the government does not promise sentencing credit for any such help.  But judges can, and often do, give credit for cooperation, and the government can always decide to recommend a lighter sentence later. And federal prosecutors clearly hope that Mr. Cohen will cooperate — his testimony that Mr. Trump directed his crimes was gratuitous unless prosecutors intended to lock him into that story for possible future use. It’s clear that Mr. Cohen is cooperating in his own way. His lawyers have been foreshadowing that cooperation for weeks, suggesting their client wants to come clean about what he knows. His lawyer Lanny Davis was even more explicit: Just minutes after Mr. Cohen’s plea, he tweeted that Mr. Cohen had implicated Mr. Trump under oath, and asked, “If those payments were a crime for Michael Cohen, then why wouldn’t they be a crime for Donald Trump?” Mr. Cohen could also provide information to the special counsel, Robert Mueller, and testify before a congressional committee investigating the president’s conduct. Mr. Davis suggested Tuesday night that Mr. Cohen has information about the infamous Trump Tower meeting with Russian agents, and perhaps even about Mr. Trump’s foreknowledge and approval of Russian hacking of Democratic servers. That’s dynamite, and much closer to the Russian conspiracy that Mr. Trump has steadfastly denied. If Mr. Cohen has this great dirt, why hasn’t Mr. Mueller already locked him in with a cooperation agreement? Mr. Mueller is a cautious man; Mr. Cohen, manifestly, is not. If the special counsel enlisted Mr. Cohen formally, that agreement would come with all of his credibility problems and tendency to act impetuously. Now Mr. Cohen’s plea has thoroughly rattled the administration. Mr. Trump and his gaffe-prone lawyer Rudy Giuliani react badly to pressure and will most likely respond with incriminating statements. And Mr. Mueller will no doubt be watching. This is what federal prosecutors do best: provoke foolish reactions.  For now, Mr. Trump’s status as president probably immunizes him from indictment and prosecution. But he’s not immune from impeachment, nor is he immune from being implicated as an unindicted co-conspirator in a raft of other indictments. Especially if Democrats manage the blue wave of their dreams in the midterms, the once-cocky fixer Michael Cohen, now humbled, could find himself a star witness at hearings on impeachment of our 45th president. And that’s why you always pay your lawyer.  Ken White is a former federal prosecutor and a criminal defense attorney at Brown White & Osborn LLP in Los Angeles. He hosts the First Amendment podcast “Make No Law.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 