My inbox was full on Wednesday. Michael Cohen. Paul Manafort. Collusion! Corruption! Grifter! Crook! These were the words that kept popping up in emails from people who see Cohen’s plea deal as a vindication of their deeply held opinions of the president. Trump supporters who emailed me had a different set of themes: Mueller, Clinton, Obama, double standards, conspiracy — all the way up to ruling-class privilege. The president’s detractors claim that Cohen’s plea agreement proves that President Trump violated campaign finance regulations. It does no such thing. For example, the payment to Stormy Daniels was, according to Rudy Giuliani, reimbursed — and was therefore a personal expenditure. There is a strong legal case that even in the context of a political campaign, paying hush money, while tawdry, is not illegal. More to the point, since when did campaign finance violations become this country’s idea of an impeachable offense? There is simply no precedent for imposing the political equivalent of the death penalty in such cases. The Obama campaign paid $375,000 in fines for its violations of election law. A similar case was unsuccessfully brought against the former Senator John Edwards for payments he made to keep an adulterous affair secret while he was running for president.  Given all this, and Justice Department guidelines against indicting a sitting president, we are left with a situation in which Democrats seeking adjudication of their allegations would have to pursue impeachment in the House and, if they were successful there, a subsequent trial in the Senate. But any such action is fraught with political peril. Turning the midterms into a referendum on impeachment could easily backfire.  Campaign finance laws exist to ensure that the ability to influence elections is contained within prescribed boundaries. In other words, any violation of those laws represents illegal influence on an election. But if campaign finance violations now become impeachable offenses, what does the future hold? For one thing, elections wouldn’t be able to settle anything. If a new precedent is set lowering the bar for removing a president from office, we will see more attempts to invoke that precedent and nullify elections. This would simply repeat what is happening now: an attempt to change a political conflict into a legal one. Separately: If you haven’t read Jonathan Rauch’s essay from Wednesday on the missing link between prosperity and happiness, you should. It’s thoughtful and original. This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. David Leonhardt, the newsletter’s author, is on a break until Aug. 27. While he’s gone, several outside writers are taking his place. This week’s author is Christopher Buskirk, a contributing Op-Ed writer for The Times and the editor of American Greatness, a conservative publication. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).