College basketball is in crisis. Last year, a federal indictment brought to light the ways in which big-name programs, agents and apparel companies worked together to give top players special treatment, including bribing them. In a response to the scandal, the N.C.A.A. convened a panel to propose reforms, and this month it announced a series of rule changes around college players and the N.B.A. draft. Most notably, the new rules permit players to hire N.C.A.A.-certified agents before declaring for the draft. These agents will help players gauge their prospects; they will also be permitted to pay for certain expenses incurred during the recruitment process.  But in practice, only a small minority of players will benefit from this rule change, because there are a finite number of credible agents and only so many resources to be spent on college prospects. These rule changes will create a de facto caste system — one that could inspire college basketball players to organize and advance their own interests, including receiving payment for their labor. A majority of college players will not go on to a career in basketball. Less than 2 percent of draft-eligible N.C.A.A. players are drafted into the N.B.A., and less than 20 percent play any sort of professional ball after college. Let’s assume that after the rule change, all 20 percent are able to hire agents. The rest will be left without agents, creating a caste division among the college ranks between elite players with professional representation and a vast majority who are forced to fend for themselves. This has the potential to exacerbate a fundamental tension at the heart of the N.C.A.A. model: There is a huge gap between the number of players who make the pros and the number who believe that they will. According to a 2011 study, 76 percent of Division I basketball players believe that it is at least “somewhat likely” that they will eventually play professionally; more than half of Division II players and 21 percent of those in Division III think the same thing.  It’s understandable that players who are used to being the most talented people on the court would believe themselves singularly capable of beating the odds. While some may be motivated in part by school spirit, love of the game or the opportunity to get an education, this imagined future provides a primary incentive for them to perform.  If these athletes believe playing basketball in college is a pathway to a professional career, then it’s easy for them to think of it as something similar to an unpaid internship and accept working without pay. But the new caste system will shatter this collective delusion. It will force players who fail to secure representation, or realize they cannot secure it, to confront the reality of their situation: They are working a grueling job in exchange for nothing other than a free education with no hope of advancement. (A college degree is nice, but it’s not the same as a paycheck. Besides, the rigors of N.C.A.A. competition mean that players often shortchange their education to devote their time and energy to athletics.) The more that college basketball players realize there is no promise of a high-paying career, the more difficult it will become for them to see their work on the court as anything other than a job that creates billions of dollars of value for universities — one that affords them no monetary compensation in return and greatly compromises their ability to get an education. This new awareness may very well pave the way for the kind of collective action — whether it’s forming a union and striking or banding together for a class-action lawsuit — that will be necessary to force the N.C.A.A. to finally start paying all athletes.  We’ve already seen this dynamic play out with graduate students, who are in an analogous position. Universities depend on a large surplus of Ph.D. candidates to teach their classes and do their grunt work in the hope of getting a job. But as with college basketball players, there are far more graduate students than there are jobs. Faced with dimming prospects for future employment, many graduate students have successfully unionized at universities across the country, and additional union drives are underway on two dozen campuses, according to the coalition of Graduate Employee Unions. If a small percentage of superstar graduate students were able to hire agents to negotiate their future employment, while a large majority were left to fend for themselves, the number of union drives would almost certainly increase. When 80 percent of college basketball players are reminded of the reality that they have no professional future, they may begin to see themselves as the unpaid workers they are and to engage in the kind of collective action that would allow them — not the N.C.A.A. — to determine what’s in their best interest. Jesse Einhorn is a writer and former graduate student organizer. Nathaniel Friedman is an editor at Victory Journal and a columnist at GQ.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 