Hardly a day goes by without President Trump being accused of breaking a presidential norm or two, doing something that no president has ever done — nor, it’s implied, ever ought to do.  He tweets. He runs down the F.B.I., the intelligence community, his own attorney general. He makes fun of other politicians. He hires and fires cabinet secretaries, lawyers and communications people with abandon. He revokes a former C.I.A. director’s security clearance. He fails to disclose his tax returns. He picks his Supreme Court nominees from a list prepared by outside groups. He alternately threatens and sweet talks foreign despots.  Guilty as charged — but so what? All norms are not created equal. Hence breaking norms is neither good nor bad except as the norms themselves are good or bad. We elect presidents partly to separate the wheat from the chaff: to energize government by shedding or retiring norms that no longer serve the public good, and by adopting fresh ones that do.  Habits, conventions and unwritten rules of the road are, of course, important to American democracy. Our national government began life as a terse written agreement, the Constitution. Once it was ratified, the immediate task was to put flesh on the bare bones of Articles I, II and III, which called for three branches of a new government (the Congress, presidency and judiciary, respectively). This required, among other things, holding national elections for the House, asking the state legislatures to choose senators and firing up the Electoral College to name a president.  Once in office, however, these politicians had to figure out how to conduct themselves in their new roles. The Constitution left it largely up to them, by a combination of written laws and unwritten customs and habits, to develop the culture of constitutionalism that it needed to endure and to fulfill its promise of good government. The resulting formal and informal norms helped both to grease the wheels of government and to legitimate them over time.  The “founding” was about this secondary process of passing statute laws and establishing customs, almost as much as it was about devising and ratifying the Constitution. The Congress spent a month debating how to address the executive. “Mr. President” won out (John Adams had suggested “Your Highness” as well as “Your Most Benign Highness”). How many justices should sit on the Supreme Court? Five or six would do, Congress decided; but it remains free to change the number, and nine is now customary.  As basically a one-person branch of government, the executive was peculiarly dependent on its occupant to create, transmit or modify its guiding norms. Presidents George Washington and John Adams delivered their annual messages (State of the Union) in a formal speech to Congress. The third president, Thomas Jefferson, rejected that custom as too monarchical, and for the next 112 years presidents followed his example of sending to the legislature a written annual message. Woodrow Wilson reverted to Washington’s model, setting the pattern for all modern chief executives. But if Mr. Trump wanted to forgo the grand speech, he could.  No president before Wilson, that prolific breaker of norms, had felt it necessary or proper to leave the country to conduct diplomacy while in office. (Teddy Roosevelt visited Panama to see the canal site, but the negotiations were already over.) Wilson went to Paris to end the war to end all wars, and Franklin Roosevelt during the next world war then made international summitry customary for our chief executive. F.D.R. was also the first president to accept in person his party’s nomination, setting the model for all the highly partisan acceptance speeches that have followed. But if he preferred, Mr. Trump could omit any of these usages. Presidents have hewed to some norms, and made and unmade others, ever since Washington. Larger political currents have amplified and complicated their efforts. In the early 19th century the country was well on the way to a quasi-parliamentary political system in which Congress dominated the executive, even arrogating to congressional caucuses the right to nominate presidential candidates. Andrew Jackson’s election in 1828 shattered those arrangements and helped to create the national party system with its nominating conventions still familiar to us. He broke many prevailing norms and instituted new ones that helped to secure the Constitution’s separation of powers and to preserve the executive branch’s equality. And that, surely, is the larger question. Presidents are often called upon to adjust norms; it’s almost part of the job. The crucial question is how the norms in question stand in relation to the Constitution and the common good. Are the norms President Trump is accused of breaking vital to American democracy and constitutionalism, or are they vital rather to the way government operates in contemporary Washington, which, like the way government was operating in the 1820s, may have surprisingly little to do with either democracy or the Constitution? Most of Mr. Trump’s alleged transgressions, measured by those standards, seem picayune. They offend against the etiquette of modern liberalism and modern liberal governance, not the Constitution. For example, choosing from a list of potential Supreme Court nominees prepared by outside experts at his request, before deliberating with his advisers and interviewing several finalists, hardly amounts to a dereliction of presidential duty. And haven’t several Democrats subsequently called for a new court-packing plan to retake control of the judiciary — a far greater norm-buster than anything Mr. Trump has done or proposed? Disturbing our NATO allies’ slumber seems more like due diligence than recklessness. Mr. Trump’s manner of treating members of his own administration is often regrettable, but then for his entire term so far he has been entangled in a pitched battle with elements of the executive branch nominally under his own authority — a frustration no previous president has had to face. Must he, in addition, acquiesce in the permanent security clearances of the previous administration’s spymasters, when they seek to wield these as licenses to kill his foreign policy and his whole presidency? Hard to imagine Jackson or F.D.R. sitting still for that. Besides, future presidents will be free to ignore or repudiate Mr. Trump’s views and his blunt manner of doing business. This occupant of the White House seems to enjoy breaking norms, and he has been conspicuously more successful at breaking them than at devising and blessing new ones for our troubled times.  But if he is to make America great again, President Trump will have to cherish his legacy as a norm-builder, too. Charles R. Kesler is a senior fellow of the Claremont Institute, editor of The Claremont Review of Books and a professor of government at Claremont McKenna College. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 