Over the past year, at lunches with various Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, I have been told at least four times that magic mushrooms will help me become a better reporter (maybe) and three times that Ecstasy will make me a nicer person (doubt it). I have also been offered several chances to microdose on LSD (pass!) and now that it is legal in California, weed, weed and more weed in every conceivable delivery method (yum, gummy bears!). And, of course, ayahuasca, a brew made from plants that includes the hallucinogen DMT. The well-known tech exec (who, like most people I interviewed for this article, asked not to be named, for obvious reasons) who urged me to try it with him was nearly ecstatic on the subject. “It is the thing to reach the next level of innovation,” he said. “And you don’t throw up that much.” He had me until vomiting. Thanks, but no thanks.  Last week The New York Times reported that some on the board of Tesla were worried that the company’s founder and chief executive, Elon Musk, “has on occasion used recreational drugs.” Some were blaming the possible use of Ambien for a series of his ill-conceived and possibly actionable tweets.  Now Burning Man, the annual gathering in Nevada’s Black Rock Desert, is about to begin. Techies and many others will flock there to look at art, dress in costumes, burn things and perhaps discover the next great start-up idea with the help of a tiny bit of ketamine.  This confluence of events made me curious about what is actually going on when it comes to drugs in the tech world these days. While the use of mind-altering substances here is nothing new, I spoke to just over a dozen people who all said consumption was increasing once again. Obviously, there are major problems with addiction to opiates and alcohol here, as elsewhere. But people in Silicon Valley tend to view drugs differently from those in places like, say, Hollywood and Wall Street. The point is less to let off steam or lose your inhibitions than to improve your mind. “No one can afford to lose a step here anymore, so they want to hack the experience to make it work for their time-constrained schedules,” said one techie. “You want to be super lucid now.” Another tech executive compares it to what Bradley Cooper did in the movie “Limitless,” about a man who uses a mystery drug to become much smarter than anyone else. “It was a terrible movie, but the idea of a having a heightened sense of awareness and also being totally functional appeals to people now,” he said. “Whatever can get you to that place without a lot of downside — like addiction — is preferred.” That is why everyone he knows microdoses, saving the longer-acting drugs like Ecstasy for the rare occasions when they want to party and relax. As always, Adderall is often used to plow through work. And marijuana, he told me, had become more like drinking a glass of wine, noting that he sees people openly vaping at tech events. Why? “No one does a stupid tweet on weed like they might on alcohol,” he said. “The most that happens is that you get lazy and eat badly.” It is all, another tech worker said, about the “intellectualizing of drug use as a stimulant for the brain.” Michael Pollan, whose recent book, “How to Change Your Mind,” talks about the resurgence of psychedelic drugs, told me in an interview that the exploration of drugs by tech workers remains part of the industry’s “hacking ethos.” In a podcast I did with him in May, Mr. Pollan traced the trend back to the 1950s, when a group of engineers at the electronics company AMPEX got involved with Al Hubbard, the “Johnny Appleseed of LSD.” He convinced them its use would make their jobs easier and wanted to try out this premise on the “best and brightest and have the wisdom trickle down to the populace.” “Scientists answer specific questions, but engineers deal with complex irreducible variables that you need to find patterns in,” Mr. Pollan said. “LSD helps with that.”  His book also discusses new studies being done on the use of psychedelics to treat depression and post-traumatic stress disorder, which are getting big financial support from techies. That research might eventually move the category of drugs from their turn-on-tune-in-drop-out heyday in counterculture San Francisco to the mainstream.  Mr. Pollan is not surprised that Silicon Valley is behind that push. He points to a range of other tech-fueled efforts — fasting, food-hacking, nootropics (drugs meant to stimulate memory and cognitive function) and attempts to stop aging and even death — that are on trend right now.  “It is all about finding a technology to improve biology,” said Mr. Pollan.  He recently met someone who had just made a fortune selling his start-up and was now experimenting with mind-altering drugs.  “He told me he had discovered art and he never knew how to look at it until he used these drugs,” said Mr. Pollan. “His entire life as a young kid was looking at a screen, and it was like he was in a tunnel the whole time and now was not.” While I was inclined to make some Grateful Dead reference here (“Casey Jones, you better watch your speed”), Mr. Pollan posited that these drug dabblers were more practical. “They have taken something like microdosing and kind of made it into a product,” he said. “You take a moment of inspiration and adapt it to capitalism.” In other words, to make more money. Pass the Ambien.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 