One of the things I like about working for the Opinion section is that it has a broad mandate to cover any subject that is relevant to readers. Our pieces on sexual issues and behavior generate a lot of conversation and disagreement. In compiling this by-no-means-comprehensive list, I found myself agreeing with a common sentiment expressed by many of the writers: In our culture, we don’t talk enough about the important issues that surround sex. And we’d do ourselves a favor if we became more comfortable with the subject.  The root of tensions among women over #MeToo isn’t about a generation gap. It’s part of a long fight over the politics of pleasure. Conversations between adults and teenagers about what happens after “yes” remain rare, Peggy Orenstein writes, and what fills in the gaps is often pornography. We tend to avoid talking about the biggest taboo of all: women’s capacity for and entitlement to sexual pleasure. “If we want an alternative to the vision of sex presented in pornography, we need to start by having open, honest and unashamed talks about sex,” the writer Lux Alptraum says.  “For whom is sex more pleasurable, men or women? … As someone who’s had sex both as a man and as a woman — I’m trans, of course — I can probably shed some light on this debate myself,” Jennifer Finney Boylan writes. She consults two dependable sources, modern science and Greek mythology, to address the question. Why would a woman go home with a man, decide she’s not attracted to him but have sex with him anyway? Maureen Dowd talks with Joanna Coles, the former editrix of Cosmopolitan and Marie Claire, about how we are having sex today. Ms. Coles makes this important point: “Good sex is a wonderful high. It’s what great novels and great music are about. And it’s free!” In this popular piece, the writer and former supermodel Paulina Porizkova compared her experiences as a woman in different countries. “It turned out most of America didn’t think of sex as a healthy habit or a bargaining tool. Instead, it was something secret. If I mentioned masturbation, ears went red.” Eddie Huang, the author of “Fresh Off the Boat,” wrote this great takedown of a toxic stereotype about Asians that Steve Harvey invoked in a joke last year.  Yes, there was repression behind the Iron Curtain. But it wasn’t sexual, wrote Kristen R. Ghodsee, a scholar and expert on Communism. Many people found this idea so controversial that the author posted her sources on her blog. “The masculine libido and its accompanying forces and pathologies drive so much of culture and politics and the economy, while remaining more or less unexamined, both in intellectual circles and in private life,” Stephen Marche wrote last year as the #MeToo movement was taking off.  Laura Bates, the founder of the Everyday Sexism Project, examines the complicated issues surrounding sex robots. Their creators “are effectively reproducing real women, complete with everything, except autonomy.” The Trump administration has made a priority of abstinence-only education, which keeps all people who are subjected to it in the dark about critical aspects of their health and treats a normal part of life — sexuality, and women’s sexuality in particular — as aberrant and shameful.