HOUSTON — Along with Hurricane Lane threatening Hawaii, there is a small tropical disturbance brewing in the Gulf of Mexico. Nothing that would be too worrisome, except for another missive from weather.com that announces, “Next Two Weeks Typically When Most Intense Mainland U.S. Hurricanes Hit.”  Having lived in Houston for 30 years or so, I knew that already. Some people have seasonal clocks for fall color or the first spring crocus; Houstonians know that hurricane season officially runs from the beginning of June through the end of November, but that the end of August through early September is the likeliest time for a hit.  I’ve been dreading the arrival of another storm season since Hurricane Harvey dumped 30 trillion gallons of water on Houston over several days beginning Aug. 25, 2017, causing over $200 billion in damage. We are still dealing with a critical housing shortage, still debating the best ways to protect ourselves from future storms.  There has been a lot of collateral damage, too, in the form of recurring nightmares, countless lawsuits and finger-pointing at just about any governmental agency you can imagine. The nicest way to describe Houston today is a city that finds itself at a critical juncture: Can it face up to climate change or not? Maybe a year isn’t enough time to make sure that everyone in need gets a FEMA check and that their homes are mold free. It’s probably not enough time for Houston to reimagine itself, either; New Orleans’s post-Katrina rebuilding took five years to get geared up and would probably never have happened without the replacement of Mayor C. Ray Nagin, who went to prison, with the visionary Mitch Landrieu. Still, Houston’s recovery has felt inexplicably sluggish, especially given the city’s passion for innovation, for rushing headlong into the future.  You can say — and it has been said — that we got ourselves into this mess. We built where we shouldn’t have, almost always opting for expansion over conservation. We accepted storms and floods as the cost of living on the Gulf Coast, like blizzards in Boston or earthquakes in San Francisco. For years, staying safe meant keeping your gas tank filled and stocking up on flashlight batteries and bottled water.  I’ve been as deluded as anyone, cheerfully enduring Hurricane Alicia in 1983, which littered downtown streets with window glass from skyscrapers, and Tropical Storm Allison, which kept my family marooned in our neighborhood for days because of flooding in 2001. The deadly Hurricane Katrina, in August 2005, could have been a wake-up call that times — and weather — were changing. But instead of checking our coastal location and predisposition to flooding, I was entranced by the P.R. bonanza that was a byproduct of Houston’s warm welcome to the New Orleans victims. A month or so after Katrina, Hurricane Rita landed me in a 10-hour traffic jam with my son as we tried to make a pre-emptive break for San Antonio. (The storm narrowly missed Houston but left East Texas in a shambles.) No worries — the gridlock was an opportunity for togetherness, despite the miserable heat. Running the air-conditioner would have used too much gas.  I put up with Hurricane Ike, too, in 2008. We slept on the kitchen floor, supposedly the safest room in the house. In the morning, we had no power, a situation that lasted only 24 hours for us but became a three-week preview of the apocalypse for many friends.  Then came the Memorial Day flood in 2015, which forced my husband and me into a 10 p.m. post-grocery-shopping showing of “Mad Max: Fury Road” and a less than romantic night on a high floor of the theater’s parking lot. During the Tax Day flood one year later, we sheltered in place. Then came Hurricane Harvey. While the rain kept falling (and falling), I listened numbly as television reporters warned of massive destruction, not just from the torrents of rain but also from the possible collapse of aging reservoirs on the west side of town. We would be right in the flood path if the water broke through. We were spared, but the George R. Brown Convention Center and the large exhibition hall adjacent to our pro football stadium were soon overflowing with storm victims, who were soon outnumbered by volunteers praised then and in the following months for their can-do spirit. Predictably, that spirit has become less palpable as the months have passed, and many people are still living in flood-ravaged homes or are homeless. A coordinated master plan remains somewhere in the ether. A $2.5 billion proposed bond issue is expected to pass this weekend, held up as proof that Houstonians are finally seeing that we need more than better flashlight batteries to keep ourselves safe.  As Dale Morris, a director of strategic partnership with the Water Institute of the Gulf told me, storms like Harvey — not just ever-larger hurricanes, but the kind that park themselves in one place and wear out their welcome — are becoming more common, and no amount of cheery roll-up-your-sleeves denial is going to stop them.  And yet that’s what seems to be expected of us from the state and federal governments. So far, the state of Texas can’t be bothered to help much with Harvey relief — Gov. Greg Abbott has refused to spend even a pittance from the state’s nearly $12 billion rainy-day fund. And the Trump administration apparently believes that the $89 billion it set aside early this year for hurricane response is plenty to solve the problems of Texas, Florida and Puerto Rico combined. It looks to me like our much-touted individualism is about to be tested — and exploited — again.  Houston and the surrounding Harris County are working on the recovery. But it’s hard to plan without a budget, and it’s hard to budget without adequate funds. Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama understood this after Katrina and anted up, as did the governors of New York and New Jersey after the devastation of Hurricane Sandy. We are, so far, alone. Maybe the flood — or the fire — hasn’t come to your door yet. But think about this: Houston, still stranded by the lack of state and federal support, is already a model for future climate disasters.  Mimi Swartz, an executive editor at Texas Monthly, is a contributing opinion writer. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 