I was 12 years old when I first encountered the blue wheelchair symbol. I still remember sitting in our family car on that hot Southern California afternoon in 1975 as my mother pulled into the department store parking lot. Something was wrong. The cars were all parked in the wrong places. Then, as we drove near the store’s front door, we saw a new set of neatly painted blue and white lines on the pavement, and a little wheelchair symbol stenciled on each space. The rest of the parking lot was filled, but these spaces were all conspicuously empty.  I especially remember the comments that came after the new spaces arrived. “It’s such a shame,” our neighbor told my mother one day. “It used to be if you arrived early enough you could count on getting a parking space in front of the store. Now nobody can use them.” Later I wondered, who is “nobody”?  I was born with cerebral palsy. At that point I had never used a wheelchair, but as soon as I saw that figure, I knew instinctively that it was a friend and an ally. Whatever my neighbor or other people said, the little figure was whispering a message of inclusion directly to me.  To this day, I have a complicated relationship with wheelchairs. I did not use one at all until my 40s, when I first visited the New York Maker Faire in Queens, N.Y., and my wheelchair use remains peripatetic. Even so, I’ve long recognized this symbol as a kind of lifeline that allows me to participate in and contribute to larger society. Like many disabled people, I was born with a body that allows partial mobility. As a child, I used heavy braces and special orthotic shoes, and I’ve always found it challenging to merely move across a room. I fall frequently, and my injuries have included concussions, broken teeth and sprained limbs. Despite these setbacks, the symbol has guided me through places, and pointed out spaces that are safe.  This month, the “wheelchair symbol,” formally known as the International Symbol of Access, turned 50. It’s an occasion worth celebrating. The original symbol was conceived by Susanne Koefoed, a Danish design student during the turbulent summer of 1968 — a year now remembered for social upheavals like the resistance in Prague, the strikes in Paris and the raised fists of black American athletes at the Mexico City Olympics. In the student-led design workshop in Stockholm that she was attending, Koefoed planted the seed for another sort of revolution when she came up with an idea for common signage to guide disabled people to accessible facilities. She drew a schematic wheelchair.  The icon spent a brief childhood in Sweden in the months after this workshop, where it could be seen around traffic intersections in Stockholm’s center and at the city’s new international airport. That same year, the symbol was adopted by the well-connected nonprofit organization Rehabilitation International. Global in reach, and with deep pockets, Rehabilitation International hoped to promote the symbol through its many media and political connections. The effort stalled, however, until officials made a simple modification — they placed a circle on top of the wheelchair’s back, transforming it into an image of a person sitting in a wheelchair. The symbol really took off in 1974, when the United Nations approved it as a key component of barrier-free design. Officially rendered in the now-familiar blue and white, the international convention for roadside amenities, the little icon became a familiar sight in parking lots, restrooms, ramps and other public places across the globe. In 1990, when President George H.W. Bush signed the Americans With Disabilities Act into law, the “wheelchair symbol” came to legally identify a host of standardized accommodations for disabled people. By this time, it was one of the most recognized symbols in the world. In the United States, it is now accepted as legal signage and can be found on road signs, disabled parking tags and other official documents across the 50 states.  In recent years, a number of designers have reimagined the wheelchair symbol. In 2011, Sara Hendren and Brian Glenney redesigned the symbol as part of their Accessible Icon Project in a way that refects the wider public understanding of members of the disabled community as people who play dynamic, active roles in public life. Their design pushes the figure out of its familiar sedentary stance. It depicts a wheelchair user leaning purposefully, even forcefully forward, setting it all in motion, as though racing through traffic or over a finish line. This newer symbol is now legally accepted in New York and Connecticut as a replacement for the older icon.  It’s been years since I first heard my neighbor openly complain about the wheelchair symbol, or the accommodations it is meant to provide. Today, I recognize that even then, the little figure was moonlighting. Yes, its official job remains to identify facilities and guide disabled people to ramps, automated doors or larger toilet stalls. But it also reminds us that access to buses and trains, entry to stores and classrooms, and the enjoyment of parks and pools is a legal right shared by everyone — disabled or not. And it reminds us of our fundamental obligation to support one another and to continue building the barrier-free society that we know we can build.  We can also happily note that my neighbor was wrong: The wheelchair symbol is not a design for nobody. It actually belongs to all of us.  Elizabeth Guffey is a professor of art and design history at Purchase College, State University of New York, and the author of “Designing Disability: Symbols, Spaces and Society.” Disability is a series of essays, art and opinion by and about people living with disabilities. The entire series can be found here.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.