My husband and I were driving down I-65, still in Tennessee but near the Alabama border, when the statue of a giant chicken caught my eye. It was standing in front of a truck stop near Elkton. I am grateful to be married to a man who will instantly pull off the highway when someone says, “Hey, let’s take a selfie with that chicken!” That particular chicken is an advertisement for the Shady Lawn Truck Stop’s fried-chicken plate. It is wearing a chef’s hat. Where its wings should be are a giant fork and a giant carving knife. The combination makes for a troubling message: chicken as both dinner and diner. It is also covered with graffiti, mostly people’s names but also an exhortation to “Read More.” Unlike the existential conflict at the heart of the chicken’s identity, that’s a message I had no trouble decoding.  Between Nashville and the Alabama Gulf Coast, where my husband and I were heading, there are quite a few unusual roadside attractions. An actual NASA Saturn rocket, all 224 feet of it, is posed as if for blastoff at the Alabama welcome center near Ardmore. The Ave Maria Grotto, where a Benedictine monk built 125 miniature replicas of famous religious sites — all made in part from found objects like cold-cream jars and toilet floaters — occupies a four-acre park in Cullman.  In Birmingham, 50 miles south of this “Jerusalem in miniature,” the cosmology goes back even further. Rising above the city is a mammoth statue of Vulcan, the Roman god of the forge. It is the world’s largest cast-iron statue, but during the years when I was growing up there, its fame lay primarily in its peculiar attire: Vulcan is wearing nothing but a blacksmith’s apron and knee-high sandals, and his bare buttocks moon the town of Homewood. Perhaps because that image is still fresh in mind by the time drivers on I-65 reach the water tower in Chilton County, center of the Alabama peach-growing region, it’s hard not to see a connection between Birmingham’s famous landmark and Chilton County’s almost-as-famous water tower, which was built in the shape of an authentically cleft peach.  Barely 10 miles down the road, as if to punish such thoughts, there’s a billboard directing motorists to “GO TO CHURCH Or the Devil Will Get You!” which graced the interstate near Prattville for many decades before a storm knocked it down in 2016. Last year heavy rains kept the surrounding soil too wet for the necessary repairs. “The devil is trying to knock it all down, but we’re going to get it back up,” the son of the Montgomery man who first erected the billboard told a reporter. Satan apparently lost the battle this year: The sign is now back in place, the original red-tailed devil intact. And the monstrous red scythe the devil is holding could surely take even the Elkton chicken’s carving knife in a fight. Nearby Montgomery boasts the World’s Largest Brick Made of Bricks. (Once the World’s Largest Brick period, it was bested in 2007 by a slightly larger brick built in one piece.) We didn’t stop to see it, but we did stop for five more giant chickens — some metal, some concrete — that were standing in front of various small-town establishments off the interstate. These are some of the roadside highlights along one stretch of one highway, mind you. The peach-shaped water tower in Chilton County is half the size of the Peachoid in Gaffney, S.C. The giant chicken outside Elkton has nothing on the World’s Largest Prairie Dog in Cactus Flat, S.D. I know because we stopped to see the prairie dog in 2006. We also stopped in Collinsville, Ill., to see the World’s Largest Catsup Bottle. Both stops occurred on the way to Mt. Rushmore, which my husband still calls “The World’s Largest Carving of Presidential Heads.”  All across the country, on interstates the width of football fields and two-lane blue highways, stand an uncountable number of homespun reminders that American ingenuity and wit have not yet been Walmart-ized out of existence. Think of Carhenge in Alliance, Neb., a replica of Stonehenge made entirely of vintage automobiles. Think of Dog Bark Park Inn in Cottonwood, Idaho, a bed-and breakfast that doubles as the World’s Largest Beagle. Think of the 13-foot-tall peanut smiling with Jimmy Carter-style teeth in Plains, Ga.; or the World’s Largest Ball of Twine in Cawker City, Kan.; or Lenny, the World’s Only Life-Size Chocolate Moose in Scarborough, Me. Every state has them. Virtually every road in the country is the site of at least one. They are most visible on leisurely summer road trips, when a detour to take a selfie with a chicken or to snicker at a 114-year-old statue’s bare butt won’t make anyone late for the cranberry relish or the Easter ham, but they are always there.  Often meant to be an advertisement for some local enterprise, they are inevitably much more than the mercantile economy requires. They are also evidence that human imagination will always resist homogenization, that daring art isn’t found only in galleries and museums, that wit and wile are everywhere among us. When interstate exits are marked by the instantly recognizable icons of a dozen fast-food restaurants and gas stations supplied by the same multinational oil companies, the giant roadside chickens will always remind us of who we are. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 