Now that the N.F.L. preseason has begun, some of the league’s players are again refusing to stand during the national anthem in protest of police brutality. A number of news organizations have mischaracterized the protests as “anthem protests,” and President Trump has gone further, saying they just “wanted to show their ‘outrage’ at something that most of them are unable to define.” He keeps coming back to this issue over and over.  Most of those players are black men. They have lived with the reality of police brutality their whole lives. This slander is an insult to them. But even if everyone who frames the kneeling as “anthem protests” is unintentionally making a mistake, it’s a harmful one. The protests have always been intended to draw attention to police brutality and the economic and social oppression of people of color. “I am not going to stand up to show pride in a country that oppresses black people and people of color,” said Colin Kaepernick, who started the protests, after a preseason game in 2016. “To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish to look the other way. There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder.” Calling the protests “anthem protests” is a dishonest way to change the conversation from systemic issues that the protests have raised again and again. The false claim that they are “anthem protests” also implies that protesting police violence is inconsistent with patriotism. In fact, African-Americans have a long history of staging protests during the national anthem because of a deep understanding and internalization of the anthem’s patriotic significance.  In 1892, at a meeting in a Chicago A.M.E. church after a lynching in Memphis, a pastor asked the 1,000 black people in the audience to sing “My Country, ’Tis of Thee,” the de facto national anthem of the time. But everyone refused. One man argued, “I don’t want to sing that song until this country is what it claims to be, ‘sweet land of liberty.’” Kevin Kruse, a history professor at Princeton, told me in an email:  At the 1968 Olympics, medalists Tommie Smith and John Carlos raised their fists during the playing of the anthem to draw attention to a variety of concerns, including black poverty and the legacy of lynching in America. While their stance was dismissed by some as radical at the time, more mainstream black athletes understood their stance and agreed with it. A few years later, Jackie Robinson wrote in his memoir “I Never Had It Made”: “I cannot stand and sing the anthem. I cannot salute the flag; I know that I am a black man in a white world.” Wayne Collett, the African-American silver medalist in the 400-meter dash in the 1972 Munich Olympics, also refused to face the flag while the anthem played at the medal ceremony. “I couldn’t stand there and sing the words, because I don’t believe they’re true,” he is reported to have said. “I believe we have the potential to have a beautiful country, but I don’t think we do.”  Last year, the football player Richard Sherman echoed this sentiment: “There isn’t liberty and justice for all. I think guys for a while — at least a year now — have been protesting that by taking a knee, sitting down, putting up a fist.”  These are the words of people who love their country, who have thought long and hard about the national anthem and what it says, and simply wish to hold America accountable to the promises it makes in its anthem.  If we have to stand and honor a song about freedom, why can’t all our country’s citizens be free, instead of subject to state violence and extrajudicial killings? There’s one last reason to avoid calling the N.F.L. protests “anthem protests.” In an era where people are worried that they’re getting fake news, and also possibly tempted to dismiss the reality of racism in the United States, it’s important that people who comment on or cover the N.F.L. protests tell their audiences the truth of what the protests are really about.  So don’t call them “anthem protests.” Call them what they are — “protests against racist police violence.”   