DUBLIN — On Sunday, while the faithful gathered for mass with Pope Francis in Dublin’s Phoenix Park, a large group gathered in the city’s Garden of Remembrance at an event called Stand for Truth. The railings had been hung with dozens of tiny pairs of baby shoes. Colm O’Gorman, who runs the Irish office of Amnesty International, organized the event. He told the crowd that he had been 13 years old, and deeply religious, when Pope John Paul II visited in 1979 — the last time a pope visited Ireland. “I was in a liturgical group,” he said. “The church was in every part of my life. That moment in Galway when the pope said, ‘Young people of Ireland, I love you,’ I believed him. My heart nearly burst. A year and a half later I was raped by a Catholic priest.” He was raped repeatedly, and that priest raped many other children. Like hundreds of other abusive clerics, the priest was facilitated and protected by the Catholic hierarchy. As in so many cases, when parents or other concerned adults complained, the local bishop or abbot would simply move the offender to another parish where he was not known, then perhaps to another. Some were posted to hospitals, some to schools. No warnings were issued. And offenders continued to rape children. Mr. O’Gorman had come to realize that no, the pope had not loved the young people of Ireland. “But we have learned to love each other,” he said. “And we are Ireland, the new Ireland.” The new Ireland allows gay people to marry, women to have abortions and unhappily married people to divorce. None of these things is allowed by Pope Francis’ church. And on this visit, the disconnect between the new Ireland and his church was plain. Pope Francis arrived in Ireland on Saturday morning and was taken to visit the popular president, Michael Higgins, who said in a statement that he had spoken “to his Holiness of how the achievement of an equality of rights defined a republic, and of how acts of exclusion, including those based on gender and sexual orientation, had caused, and were still causing, great suffering.” The Taoiseach (as Ireland’s prime minister is known), Leo Varadkar, gave a speech in the presence of the pope about the “brutal crimes perpetrated by people within the Catholic church and then obscured to protect the institution at the expense of innocent victims.” Now, Mr. Varadkar said, words must be followed by actions. Well, there were plenty of words. During his public and private engagements Pope Francis repeatedly expressed shame. He begged for God’s forgiveness and said crimes committed by clerics and others in the church had left “an open wound.” But he did not offer any ideas as to why all this depravity had been visited on innocent people; he did not outline any plans to reform his church; and he did not instruct criminals within the church, or those who facilitated them, to hand themselves over to the police. The Irish people were not satisfied. In 1979, more than a million people attended the papal mass. Feminists were a radically dissenting voice, but they were lost in the general euphoria — about 90 percent of the population actively practiced Catholicism. Many people were suffering, but not in the public domain.  This time 500,000 tickets were issued but an estimated 130,000 turned up. Almost 10,000 registered for the Stand for Truth event.  There have been too many hollow promises. We know too much. Protests about the denial of human rights are well organized and well supported. Our side wins referendums, including, this summer, one that will allow women to get abortions in Ireland. And hollow promises are no longer believed.  At the Stand for Truth event musicians sang a hauntingly beautiful version of “Sometimes I Feel Like a Motherless Child” and “We Shall Overcome.” Sarah Clancy, a poet, read “Cherish,” one of her fierce poems, indicting “the ring kissers/who made it all possible.” The novelist Marian Keyes quoted Raymond Carver’s “Late Fragment” in which he says that yes, he got what he wanted from life: “to call myself beloved, to feel myself/beloved on the earth.” Survivors of abuse had been ignored and silenced, Ms. Keyes said, but now Irish people were going to take care of them. “They deserve to know right to their bones that they are beloved on the earth,” she said. I spoke to Siobhán Casey, who’d come to the event with her husband and two small children. “I’ve been working with young people in the care system and the criminal justice system for years,” she told me. “I have seen so much damage. It runs through generations. … They don’t always have the emotional language to describe what happened in their family but they are suffering.”  And I met Claire McKeegan, a human rights lawyer from the North who represents many survivors of institutional abuse, who wore a necklace made of baby shoes. She said her clients would gain strength from the protests. The rally ended with a silent walk along a street named after Sean McDermott, one of the leaders of the 1916 Easter Rising against the British. The pope had been conveyed down this same street in his Popemobile the previous day. He had stopped at the local chapel, where he venerated the bones of Matt Talbot, an alcoholic religious zealot who mortified his flesh by wrapping it in chains and died in the 1920s. The walkers passed the church, stopping just beyond it at another building that the pope was not brought to see. Now empty, it was the last of the Magdalene laundries — institutions where girls and women were sent to atone for the “sin” of becoming pregnant while unmarried — which closed only in 1996. An artist at the site invited people to write their thoughts on white sheets like those scrubbed by the women confined in them. One man wrote: “My father was told by the Monsignor it was his own fault for leading the priests on. My heart breaks.”  I walked to the train station feeling profoundly sad, but also proud to be part of the new Ireland, a republic that hears the voices of the most vulnerable. Where we value love and solidarity and courage. Susan McKay (@SusanMcKay15) is writing a book about the Irish border.