There’s a historical haze confounding plans to observe the coming 100th anniversary of the ratification of the 19th Amendment in 1920.  It descends, first, in definitions: “That’s the one that guaranteed a right to vote to all American women, right?” Not exactly. The “women’s suffrage” amendment, like the 15th Amendment before it, which sought to protect the political rights of former slaves, guaranteed nothing. It simply told states that being female could no longer be a reason to bar citizens from voting. To African-American women living in states with systems in place to block African-American men from voting, the amendment provided neither clarity nor power. Haze also makes it difficult to see what merits celebration. With the most prominent advocates of women’s voting rights having come under scrutiny for their racial exclusiveness, including Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Alice Paul, can we honor their activism? Can we celebrate a transformation that broke men’s monopoly on political power while we simultaneously face up to ways that the ugliest aspects of American history influenced how citizens achieved this victory and how they behaved afterward? That is possible if we tell a documented story and use appropriate lenses. A popular, national reform movement cannot be measured simply by the actions of a few leaders. Multitudes worked to overcome strong resistance to sharing political power with women. Under many leaders across seven decades, they battled in arenas of state and national politics that were infested with racial conflict. Eventually, a movement that began among opponents of slavery, who at least talked the talk of racial equality, grew to embrace the whole range of American opinions on race. For a celebration, we need history that recognizes in the 19th Amendment a fundamental change in government, eliminating the presumption that men had a right to govern for women. Three generations of women sought that change before 1920, and more generations fought on afterward to win voting rights for female citizens in Puerto Rico and for African-Americans, Native Americans and Asian-Americans on the mainland. Their efforts were powered by a political awakening, a perception among women of varied backgrounds that they needed a voice in politics. In 1871, 200 black women in North Carolina thought direct action might make the point: Dressed in men’s clothing, they went to the polls and cast ballots. In 1880, two dozen female millworkers in a small Wisconsin town sent word to the Republican National Convention that as self-supporting citizens, they needed the vote. From 1905, members of the Texas Federation of Colored Women’s Clubs applied steady pressure to open doors to political participation in their state. The list goes on. Those women strove to change law and political culture all over this land because they believed that manhood suffrage — full voting rights for men and only men — made a mockery of self-government.  Like any social movement arising from the population of these complicated United States, however, this one contained contradictions. One woman who campaigned for suffrage wanted a vote to put an end to immigration. Another felt humiliated that her former slaves had a political voice and she did not. At the 20th century’s start, white women in North Carolina could promise their menfolk that with votes they would strengthen white supremacy. We were a nation torn by often vicious prejudices; fervent beliefs in racial, ethnic, sexual and religious hierarchies; and a people armed with powerful tools of exclusion. Women brought those problems into their movement and did little better than anyone else in the country at resolving those conflicts. We also need history that recognizes how the suffrage movement’s history calls attention to the precariousness of voting rights in the United States. When Congress was drafting a 15th Amendment (ratified in 1870), two choices were made that struck many observers as unwise: seeking suffrage only for men and leaving political rights in the hands of state governments. The amendment told states that they could no longer disqualify men from voting “on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude.” Any mother could have foreseen the result: Tell your son he cannot ride his scooter around the living room — “There are rules, young man” — and he turns up next in the dining room. The amendment did not anticipate all the ways that states would block black men from voting, like imposing poll taxes. That was a deadly mistake. The amendment also removed any doubt that states controlled voting rights. That was a bad decision we still live with.  Woman suffragists took note of the stronger alternatives offered and rejected in Congress. During debate in 1868, a congressman proposed this text: “The right of suffrage in the United States shall be based on citizenship, and shall be regulated by Congress, and all citizens of the United States, whether native or naturalized, shall enjoy this right equally, without any distinction or discrimination whatever founded on race, color, or sex.” Imagine: equal political rights, based on national citizenship and insulated from state restrictions. We should all be so lucky today. One wing of the 19th-century suffrage movement pursued this vision of citizen suffrage protected by the power of the federal government. Susan B. Anthony and her attorneys referred to it as “a citizen’s right to vote” in the wake of her arrest for exercising that right in 1872. It was the gist of the argument Francis Minor made to the United States Supreme Court in 1875 while appealing Missouri’s refusal to register his wife as a voter. Elizabeth Cady Stanton called it “national protection for national citizens” in 1878. The “primal rights of all citizens,” she wrote, “should be regulated by the national government, and complete equality in civil and political rights everywhere secured.”  By 1890, however, when Southern states were disenfranchising black men with impunity and woman suffragists had begun to seek victories state by state, citizen suffrage was a faint memory among the white majority in suffrage societies, and the ideal of an inclusive electorate found little favor among politicians anywhere. Many states wrote new laws to stop immigrants, African-Americans and the uneducated of any group from qualifying to vote. By the 20th century, the amendment favored by suffrage organizations was modeled on the 15th Amendment. Although often called the Susan B. Anthony amendment, it failed to echo her claim to “a citizen’s right to vote.” That unrealized ideal is there in the haze.  Sometimes obscured in the hazy light are women and men intent on social change. They can be our key to understanding what it meant to put up resistance and mobilize political power without the ballot. They knew what damage the lack of voting rights could wreak, and many of them knew when to reach out across those many divisions that plagued the country. While deciding what to celebrate in 2020, peer into an antislavery society meeting a few weeks after ratification of the 15th Amendment to hear Frederick Douglass — black — argue it was time to return to the cause of woman suffrage. Or take a seat in California in 1896 among Union Army veterans gathered to hear Naomi Anderson — black — and Susan B. Anthony — white — urge them to vote for woman suffrage in a forthcoming election. Or climb to the balcony of Rochester’s Central Church in 1903 to hear James H. Hayes, Esq. — black — of Richmond, Va., and Anthony make the case that freedom without voting rights was a mockery, whoever you were. These are reformers at work. Ann D. Gordon is an emeritus research professor of history at Rutgers University and the editor of the papers of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony.