I’m about to graduate from college. I’m gliding across campus with a bhangra bounce to my step. All I have to do is walk across the podium and grab the diploma. At the last second, I realize I’ve failed to submit my senior thesis and can’t graduate. I become overwhelmed, panic, and attempt an epic cram session.  But I know it’s pointless. I’ve run out of time. Then I wake up.  I’m a 37-year-old man with a family who actually graduated from college and law school and is suffering from a midlife crisis that reveals itself in recurring nightmares. One night, I’m panicking over a final exam. Another night, I’m in fifth grade, overweight and wearing husky pants while my classmates wear trendy jeans. They’re all remixes of the same plot: I’m stuck, falling more behind all the time.  The anxiety that I haven’t done enough — and will never do enough — is heightened by living in a political climate that makes it feels more urgent than ever to make a difference in the world. To do something that matters. When I met the high school student Cameron Kasky, a Parkland shooting survivor, he told me about his activism against gun violence. I felt inspired, but also worthless — realizing I’d spent the night trying to hide the salsa stain on my dress shirt. My childhood crush Alyssa Milano is using her Twitter account to raise awareness about social justice issues like a woman’s right to choose, while I still find myself slipping into talking about what I had for lunch. I remind myself that I’m lucky to have the opportunity to write for large audiences, but in some ways this intensifies the pressure I put on myself. On many of the days I haven’t published a new piece, I’m hit with the realization that my friends from college are canvassing their neighborhoods to get out the vote for the 2018 midterms, while I’m deciding whether to take my kids to the mall or Chuck E. Cheese’s.  I used to think a midlife crisis was a problem manufactured by privileged suburbanites. But my personal angst combined with my anxiety about the state of the country have made mine feel very real. For the first time in our marriage, my wife, a calm and optimistic physician, asked me how we are going to protect our Muslim kids in America. She asked this on the day the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Trump’s travel ban. Her question hit like a sledgehammer to the chest. Babies have been separated from their parents at the border and remain in detention. Record heat waves are sweeping the country. Income inequality is widening all the time. I’m not just stuck — I’m wasting my time navel gazing about a midlife crisis when there’s suffering all around me. Recently at a journalism conference, I told the writer Jonathan Rauch that I thought I was suffering from a midlife crisis. “Wait until you’re 50. It gets a lot better,” he told me, recommending his book “The Happiness Curve: Why Life Gets Better After 50.” “What? I have to wait until 50? Hell no!” was my response. Mr. Rauch’s book affirms the normality and prevalence of the crisis, unpacking the overwhelming research revealing the U-curve, which charts people’s happiness in nearly 60 countries. Happiness declines during our 30s, hitting the nadir at 46, but then steadily rises and peaks at 70.  Around my age, however, a person’s ambitious hopes and expectations run up hard against time and reality. At 37, I now have 15-minute conversations with my friends about the benefits of fiber. Forget six-pack abs, I just work out to stay marginally overweight. I fear that I’ll never accomplish my “to do list by 40,” which includes writing that best-selling novel, creating that epic comic book hero and hosting a talk show that I imagine could bring understanding to a polarized country.  I measure victories not by accomplishing the extraordinary but by simply performing the mundane, like paying the mortgage every month, trying (and failing) to sleep 7 hours a day and raising my good cholesterol.  I’ve accepted that if it’s true that my generation will have to become the heroes we were waiting for, I’ll probably never be invited to join the real-life Avengers. However, a crisis, once confronted honestly, can become less overwhelming. My wife, concerned about my malaise, keeps reassuring me there’s enough time to accomplish it all, or at least what’s important. She reminded me that our parents are still alive, our kids are healthy, crazy and energetic, we’re privileged compared with most and we’re still relatively young. This moment, now, is the best years of our lives, which will never come back — and people with much less than I have have managed to make a mark on the world. I went back and recommitted to my “to do list,” but with one major edit: I deleted “by 40” and added “inshallah” (Arabic for God willing.) I don’t have to be Iron Man, but maybe I can be Moon Knight. He's not as well known, will never get his own Marvel movie, but he does still make a difference.  A few nights ago, I had the midlife crisis dream again.  This time, when I woke up, I didn’t dwell on it. I decided to think less about being behind, and more about how to make the most of the time I have left.  Wajahat Ali is a playwright, lawyer and contributing opinion writer.