This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. With yesterday’s voting in Arizona, Florida and Oklahoma, the 2018 primary season is almost over. Only five states — all in the Northeast, including Massachusetts and New York — have yet to vote, and each will do so over the next couple of weeks.  All told, the primary season has been quite good for Democrats. They have largely avoided nominating weak candidates in winnable districts. They have kept their focus on economic issues, where the public tends to support Democratic positions (as opposed to social issues or impeachment, on which voters are more evenly split). Meanwhile, President Trump continued acting in ways that have kept his approval ratings in the low 40s. Last night’s results continued the trend. Combined, Arizona and Florida have nine House districts that Democrats have a legitimate chance to flip, according to the Cook Political Report. Solid Democratic candidates won the primaries in all nine.  In Florida’s 15th, a suburban district, The Tampa Bay Times said that Kristen Carlson, a former prosecutor, was the best fit, and she won the nomination. In Arizona’s 6th, outside Phoenix, a nurse practitioner named Heather Ross, who favors expanding Medicare, will face David Schweikert, a Republican incumbent who tried to repeal Obamacare — and who has ethical problems. (Primary ballots are still being counted, and the Democrat in second place, Anita Malik, is also a strong candidate.) None of this guarantees that Democrats will retake the House in November. The party will need to continue running a strong campaign and, in all likelihood, an unusually strong turnout for a midterm. But as primary season comes to a close, it has mostly helped the Democrats’ chances. Arguably, the most complicated result for Democrats last night was the one that received the most attention. In the Florida governor's primary, Andrew Gillum — the mayor of Tallahassee, endorsed by Bernie Sanders — won a victory many progressives are celebrating. Yet some political analysts think a losing candidate — Gwen Graham, a former congresswoman — had a better chance of winning the general election this fall. Even if those analysts are right, though, I think the congressional races are more important than any governor’s race. Only if Democrats retake Congress will Trump face any serious accountability for the damage he is doing, as my colleague Michelle Goldberg explained this week.  Elsewhere: Ella Nilson of Vox and Benjamin Wallace-Wells of The New Yorker profile Gillum and explain why he has excited so many people on the left. You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).