If there is a silver lining to the recent trade insanity, it’s the bright light that it shines on the victims of President Trump’s tariffs. These victims include construction companies, equipment manufacturers and the many American producers whose costs are increasing. Workers in these industries as well as ordinary American consumers pay higher prices for automobiles, washers and dryers, and the other goods whose prices are artificially hiked by the tariffs.  Because of the president’s hyperactive use of his trade authority, the scale of this pain is unusually high. But the reality is that this disregard for the consequences inflicted on buyers in the industries downstream from tariffs is nothing new. In fact, thanks to the handiwork of interest groups who benefit from the tariffs and the politicians who serve them, it’s embedded in our trade system, sometimes even in the legislation itself.  Consider how easy it was for Mr. Trump to get a 25 percent tariff on steel imports. His administration simply concocted a fanciful national-security narrative about why the steel industry needed protection from foreign steel imports — this despite the industry’s enjoying a 70 percent share of the United States steel market and despite the Department of Defense finding no national-security harm from global steel imports.  Why is such a half-baked justification so easy to spin? In large part, it has to do with the Commerce Department, which is responsible for measuring a given tariff’s impact. A department report on a tariff measures the direct impact on an industry — say, steel manufacturers — as well as steel-consuming industries and the economy more broadly.  However, while it has the data, the Department of Commerce is not required by law to consider the impact on the industries in the cross hairs of a tariff in its recommendation to impose the penalty — even though the impact can be brutal. For example, for the projected impact of the steel tariffs, numbers produced by the Commerce Department show that they may increase employment in the metals industry by 14,000 jobs. But the report also says that a significantly larger number of jobs will be destroyed, as a result of these tariffs, in industries downstream from metal production. One of the dozens of such industries is construction, where 16,000 jobs alone are projected to disappear. This explains why over 20,000 heartbreaking requests for exemption from the steel tariffs have already been filed by American firms, all begging their own government to stop hurting them. Under the current system, if Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross decides to protect his friends and business interests in the steel industry, he can ignore the damage that his own data show the tariffs will inflict on some of the 6.5 million workers in America’s steel-consuming industries. His sole lawful obligation is to demonstrate that the economic fortunes of the 140,000 steel employees will be promoted by the tariffs. (The same story — available data on negative downstream effects ignored by the administration — applies to the tariffs on Chinese goods.) Even worse is the legislatively required bias that the United States International Trade Commission must exercise against American consumers of imports when deciding whether or not to impose duties on foreign producers accused of selling their goods for less than they should or selling unduly subsidized products. These trade remedies are called antidumping, and countervailing duties and deciding whether or not to impose them is a core function of the I.T.C. As my colleague Christine McDaniel, a trade economist and former adviser to the I.T.C. chairman, and I exposed in a recent paper published by the Mercatus Center, when I.T.C. commissioners make their determinations in such cases, they’re actually forbidden by statute from considering the impact of these so-called trade remedies on downstream industries — those consumers of goods and services hit by the tariffs. To understand just how lopsided the process is, look at the tariffs imposed by the Commerce Department in March on Canadian newsprint paper. An American company, North Pacific Paper Company, complained to the Commerce Department that Canadian manufacturers were harming their business by selling newsprint at noncompetitively low prices. The reality is that the general shift to digital platforms is the main cause of declining demand for newsprint.  That case in now before the I.T.C. (which will render its decision today). Unfortunately, in making their decision about whether to uphold the tariffs to protect the 34 employees of North Pacific Paper, the commissioners are not allowed to consider the damage that this domestic trade remedy would wreak on the 600,000 people employed throughout the American publishing industry. The law forbids it. And that, simply put, is crazy. The good news is that there’s an easy fix: Change the statutes so that commissioners are required to consider the effects of trade restrictions on downstream industries and consumers.  The bad news is that the same steel special interests that nudged the administration to impose these punishing steel tariffs on millions of American consumers are protecting the biased I.T.C. process. Trade commission data shows that over 52 percent of anti-dumping duty and countervailing-duty cases that have landed before the I.T.C. are steel related, and most resulted in a duty on imports — which means higher costs for American producers that need steel. Today, steel executives have an iron grip on the White House thanks to the deep ties of the president’s advisers to the industry. Mr. Ross made his fortune buying and selling steel companies and was sitting on a steel company’s board until his confirmation as commerce secretary. Robert Lighthizer, a private lawyer who represented the steel industry for years, is now the United States trade representative. The upper levels of both the Office of the United States Trade Representative and the Commerce Department have predictably been populated by other individuals with close ties to Big Steel. And the trade adviser Peter Navarro’s 2012 documentary, “Death by China,” was funded by one of the top beneficiaries of these tariffs — the steel producer Nucor.  This cronyism explains how the steel industry is directly involved in deciding which companies do or don’t receive exemptions from the steel tariffs and why so few exemptions have been granted.  The bias of Trump administration personnel alone makes it unlikely we will soon reform our trade-remedy system to weigh the interest of downstream consumers before imposing trade sanctions. But such reform isn’t so far-fetched. The European Union and Australia have “national economic interest” requirements built into their trade remedy processes. They take different forms, but they are meant to limit the imposition of tariffs to protect one industry at the expense of everyone else. Less known is the fact that at the time of China’s admission to the World Trade Organization, the United States implemented a transitional safeguard measure allowing the president to provide import relief for any industry of concern as long as the provision of such relief was in the national economic interest of the United States. As a result — to the great benefit of the American people — trade restrictions were imposed only once during the nine years the provision was in place: President Barack Obama’s tire tariffs, which unsurprisingly proved to be an unmitigated failure. Veronique de Rugy (@veroderugy) is a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 