This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. Florida is a state so closely divided between Democratic and Republican voters that differences in turnout levels often determine election winners. In 2016, 81.2 percent of the state’s registered Republicans voted, according to Daniel A. Smith of the University of Florida. Only 74.4 percent of registered Democrats did so. If Democrats had voted at close to the same rate as Republicans, it would have been more than enough to erase Donald Trump’s 113,000-vote victory over Hillary Clinton in the state. For years, Democrats have tried to win statewide races in purple states like Florida — and red states like Georgia — by nominating moderates who could woo swing voters. But now the party is trying something different. With a push from Democratic primary voters, it has adopted a strategy that the left has long urged. The party has nominated unabashed progressives for governor in both Georgia and Florida — and will try to win by inspiring left-leaning voters whose turnout has often lagged, such as younger adults and non-whites. It’s one of the most fascinating subplots of the 2018 midterms.  If Andrew Gillum, the Tallahassee mayor, can win in Florida, and Stacey Abrams, a former state legislator, can win in Georgia, it will suggest a big lesson for the 2020 presidential race: A turnout-first, persuasion-second strategy can work. That Gillum and Abrams aren’t only proud progressives but also African-American would only add to the lesson. I’ll admit to being uncertain about the wisdom of the strategy. On the plus side, those 2016 Florida turnout numbers show that Democrats do have room to bring new voters into the electorate. In the primary, Gillum won partly by increasing turnout.  Gillum and Abrams are also both smartly emphasizing economic issues, which can both increase turnout and win over swing voters. The American public is decidedly left-of-center on such issues, including health care, the minimum wage and corporate taxes. Those are all Gillum priorities. But persuading people who don’t normally vote to do so can be extremely difficult. Voting is time-consuming and inconvenient, and many Americans think their vote doesn’t matter. And in basic arithmetic terms, winning over a swing voter is twice as valuable as turning out an infrequent voter from the left. In Gillum’s case, I think he is emphasizing a couple of issues that will turn off some swing voters. These issues include gun control and the abolishment of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, known as ICE. “The tactical logic of Gillum’s primary campaign persuaded Democratic voters, but it persuaded them partly because it’s what they wanted to hear,” as The New Yorker’s Benjamin Wallace-Wells says. “They liked the idea that you could nominate an outspoken progressive and think that that is the tactically right choice. But we don’t know that for sure.” We’re about to find out. For more on Gillum, I recommend Darren Sands in BuzzFeed News. The editorial board of The Tampa Bay Times notes the stark choice between Gillum and Ron DeSantis, the Trump-loving Republican nominee.  “There have only been 2 black governors elected in the history of this country. Now three are on the ballot in one cycle,” writes Errin Haines Whack of The Associated Press. (Benjamin Jealous in Maryland is the third.) “This is no small thing. I’ve seen it in my reporting: Black voters are galvanized and mobilized headed into November.” You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).