For a long time, I made it a point to write about Guantánamo at least once a year. There was usually some new development to hang a column on. But the real reason was that, having chronicled the riveting legal saga sparked by the George W. Bush administration’s decision to create a legal black hole at the U.S. Navy base there in which to imprison hundreds of men captured in Pakistan and Afghanistan in the aftermath of 9/11, I felt an obligation to show that I was still watching, even if most people no longer were. But gradually, as President Barack Obama left office with his promise to close Guantánamo unfulfilled, and as President Trump blustered about opening the island prison to new arrivals, and as the military commission that is supposed to try the accused 9/11 perpetrators has yet to set a trial date after six years, there has seemed nothing to say. (Since his inauguration, President Trump has permitted the release of one Guantánamo detainee, leaving an inmate count of 40, down from 780 at its peak.) True, back in June, when Supreme Court Justice Anthony M. Kennedy announced his retirement, there were a few comments about his important role in the Supreme Court majority that pushed back against both the White House and Congress in a series of Guantánamo decisions more than a decade ago. But those few references were quickly buried in the avalanche of speculation on what Justice Kennedy’s departure will mean for the future of gay rights and the right to abortion. I’m writing about Guantánamo now because of a little noticed order that came down earlier this month from the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. That’s the court on which President Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Brett Kavanaugh, has sat for the past 12 years. The order, and the appeal that produced it, provide a bridge between past and present, between Justice Kennedy and his former law clerk who would replace him, between a battle over the rule of law now fading into history and a battle over the future of the Supreme Court that will play out when Judge Kavanaugh’s Senate confirmation hearing begins next week.  The three-sentence order did not directly concern Judge Kavanaugh. He and his newest colleague on the appeals court, Gregory Katsas, “did not participate in this matter,” a footnote informs us. The court’s other nine judges did, and all agreed not to grant an unusual request to hear, as a full court (en banc in legal terminology), an appeal brought on behalf of a Guantánamo detainee named Khalid Ahmed Qassim. Such a request typically comes after a three-judge panel has heard an appeal, but Mr. Qassim’s lawyers sought to skip that step, deeming it futile.  Mr. Qassim, a 41-year-old Yemeni, is one of Guantánamo “forever prisoners,” having been held without charge for 16 years. He filed a habeas corpus petition in Federal District Court in Washington, D.C. in July 2004, shortly after the Supreme Court ruled in Rasul v. Bush that, contrary to the government’s argument, federal judges had jurisdiction to hear such cases from Guantánamo inmates. Mr. Qassim’s petition, along with others, was kept in abeyance as cases that would inevitably bear on it traveled up and down the legal system. Finally, in May, a federal district judge, Thomas F. Hogan, denied the petition in a brief oral ruling. Binding precedent of the circuit left him no choice, the judge said. “Judge Hogan was correct that panel decisions of this court prevented him from granting relief to Mr. Qassim,” the detainee’s lawyers told the appeals court’s judges. And here is the link to Judge Kavanaugh. The lawyers cited four D.C. Circuit decisions that they say have flouted the Supreme Court’s holding in Boumediene v. Bush, the 2008 decision that recognized a constitutional right — not simply a statutory right, as in the earlier Rasul case — for Guantánamo inmates to seek federal court review of the legality of their detention. The four decisions, the lawyers asserted, have left Mr. Qassim and others at Guantánamo “caught in a trap from which they cannot escape based on rules set by panels of this court that are directly contrary to the Supreme Court’s ruling in Boumediene.” Under federal court practice, panels within an appeals court must accept each others’ decisions as binding, unless and until the full court announces a change of course. The Qassim case will now go to an ordinary three-judge panel, which may send it back to Judge Hogan for additional fact-finding in advance of a renewed appeal. Judge Kavanaugh did not write an opinion in any of the four cases. But he was a member of the panels that decided two of them, both in 2010, by 3-to-0 votes. One, Al-Bihani v. Obama, upheld the denial of habeas corpus for Ghaleb Al-Bihani, a Yemeni who claimed that before 9/11 he was merely a cook for a group in Afghanistan allied with the Taliban’s fight against the Northern Alliance. This support for the Taliban was sufficient to justify his continued detention, the panel held in an opinion by Judge Janice Rogers Brown. Wherever the outer bounds of material support lie, Judge Brown wrote, “they clearly include traditional food operations essential to a fighting force and the carrying of arms.” (A government review board approved Mr. Al-Bihani’s release in 2014, and he was transferred to Oman.) The other case, Al-Adahi v. Obama, overturned a district judge’s grant of habeas corpus to Mohammed Al-Adahi, a Yemeni who had once attended an Al Qaeda training camp and stayed at an Al Qaeda guesthouse. “In all, there can be no doubt that Al-Adahi was more likely than not part of Al Qaeda,” Judge A. Raymond Randolph wrote for the panel. In granting Mr. Al-Adahi’s petition, the district judge had found aspects of the government’s evidence unreliable. But judges must view the government’s evidence as a whole, not piece by piece, Judge Randolph wrote, in order to see whether taken as a whole it meets the deferential standard of “more likely than not.” The government had easily met that test in Mr. Al-Adahi’s case, Judge Randolph said.  Mr. Al-Adahi was cleared for release in 2016 and transferred to the United Arab Emirates. Judge Randolph has been openly contemptuous of the Supreme Court’s Boumediene decision. In a speech in 2011, he compared the justices to Daisy and Tom Buchanan in The Great Gatsby, characters who “smashed things up” and “let other people clean up the mess they made.” Asked in an interview for Columbia University’s Rule of Law Oral History Project in 2013 whether it was “fair to say that you think the Supreme Court was all wet three times running” — a reference to the court’s three rounds of Guantánamo rulings that culminated in Boumediene — Judge Randolph answered “Yes.” In their appeal to the full D.C. Circuit in Mr. Qassim’s case, the lawyers noted that following the Boumediene decision in 2008, district judges heard 53 habeas corpus petitions from Guantánamo detainees and granted 38 of them, a rate of 70 percent. But since the four panel rulings that purported to interpret Boumediene, “not a single habeas petition contested by the government has been granted, and every previous district court grant of habeas appealed by the government has been reversed.” As a result, they wrote, “these ruling have eviscerated Boumediene’s holding that Guantánamo detainees are entitled to a ‘meaningful opportunity’ to contest the basis for their detentions.” The author of the majority opinion in Boumediene was Justice Kennedy. The vote was 5 to 4, and the split was even more bitter than the vote count suggests. Justice Antonin Scalia, in a dissenting opinion that Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and Justices Clarence Thomas and Samuel A. Alito Jr. also joined, warned of “disastrous consequences” from the decision and predicted that “it will almost certainly cause Americans to die.” Justice Kennedy’s majority opinion was powerful, a paean to the rule of law that echoed well beyond a particular military prison on a particular island. “Within the Constitution’s separation-of-powers structure,” he wrote, “few exercises of judicial power are as legitimate or as necessary as the responsibility to hear challenges to the authority of the Executive to imprison a person.” That was especially so when detention was by executive authority rather than following a trial and conviction for a crime, he said. “In this context the need for habeas corpus is more urgent,” he added. “The habeas court must have sufficient authority to conduct a meaningful review of both the cause for detention and the Executive’s power to detain.” Did these words by his old boss ring in Judge Kavanaugh’s ears as he signed on to opinions that left the promise of the Boumediene decision an empty one? And if not, why not? I don’t know. But I do know that Guantánamo has always been a mirror that reflects back on ourselves. And the reflection in this instance gives us another hint of what the substitution of Brett Kavanaugh for Anthony Kennedy may mean for the future of the court and the country. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 