HOUSTON — When Ally Babineaux was 22, before she had the first of two heart transplants but after she had nearly died from a ruthless virus that attacked her heart, a woman accosted her in a parking lot. As sick as Ally was on that day in 2010, she was, still, a classic Texas beauty, with long blond hair, flashing blue eyes and just a hint of the trim, muscular body years of ballet had given her. She was fresh from a monthslong hospital stay — her recovery never assured — and was trying to do some quick shopping before the last of her energy drained away.  She parked her car close to the store entrance and hooked her handicapped sticker on the rearview mirror. As she slid out of the driver’s seat, the woman began screaming at her for taking up a space for sick people. Being short-tempered can be a contributor to heart disease, but it can also be a sign of self-preservation. Standing in the sun, Ally lifted her blouse to show off the tube running from her belly to the small battery pack she carried in a shoulder bag — the battery that powered the tiny pump that kept the left side of her heart beating, that kept her alive.  “Is this handicapped enough for you?” Ally demanded. I thought about Ally many times as I was writing about heart disease over the past few years. In particular I wondered why, despite its still being the major killer in the United States — responsible for about 610,000 deaths according to the American Heart Association — it seems to generate less fear among the public than cancer, which is expected to take 609,000 lives this year, or even the opioid epidemic, which killed 72,000 people in 2017.  One of the greatest terrors of women’s lives is breast cancer, which accounts for one in 30 female deaths a year, and yet one in every four female deaths stem from heart disease. As nonprofit fund-raising literature repeats ad infinitum, more women die of heart disease than all cancers combined. Two studies completed recently showed a frightening increase in the number of women suffering from heart attacks and heart failure before, during and immediately after giving birth.  And while the number of deaths from heart attacks is falling, the number of people living with heart failure — who often feel they are suffocating daily because their hearts cannot pump enough blood for a healthy, comfortable existence — is on the rise, up to 6.5 million in 2011-2014 from 5.7 million in 2009-2013. With the number of aging Americans growing, cardiovascular disease in all forms is going to be with us for a long time. And yet, complacency persists.  That’s partly because of the many advances made since the 1960s, when the causal link between cigarette smoking and heart disease became convincing enough for everyone but cigarette manufacturers. Nor has it ever been a secret that staying healthy helps: All a person has to do to avoid a heart attack, supposedly, is to quit smoking, get proper sleep and exercise, control stress and avoid junk food.  We now have better medications, like cholesterol-lowering drugs, and medical devices like pacemakers and defibrillators, and even microsurgery for in utero repairs of the heart muscle in embryos. Who can forget heart transplants, which were mind-blowing in the late 1960s but now seem almost routine? (Unless you are getting one.) Mechanical hearts and hearts grown from our own stem cells seem just around the corner.  The treatment for heart disease, unlike cancer, can also seem invisible. Maybe, in the later stages, you can find yourself tethered to an oxygen tank, but no one goes bald as a treatment for open-heart surgery, and no one suffers a disfiguring loss that can threaten a person’s sexual being. “You hear the word ‘chemo’ and you see what it does to people,” Ally reminded me. “I never looked sick until it was really bad. You can’t really tell who has heart disease unless you know they do.” In truth, heart disease has become a victim of its own success. Yes, 90 percent of all heart attacks are preventable — but more than 735,000 Americans annually still suffer one. And while it may be easy to persuade a college-educated white woman to start going to spin class to save herself, there are far fewer options for poor people of color in the United States, who often lack access to grocery stores with fresh food, just for starters.  And blaming victims does little good, especially when many have no way of knowing they are at risk: The newborn with the heart defect, the high school football star who collapses on the field, the middle-aged runner who drops dead on his morning jog, the vast number of women whose condition is still misdiagnosed by doctors who have yet to recognize that the symptoms of heart disease differ by gender — such people are not responsible for their condition, which can be as silent and lethal as any cancer.  Worst case, there’s always a transplant at the end of the road, right? Not necessarily. Heart donors are scarce. In one of those dark public health coincidences, the near universal use of seatbelts caused a precipitous drop in automobile deaths — and in turn, hearts for those in need. The number available for transplant has remained static at 2,500 a year, while the number of people waiting for a heart at any given time is at least 3,000. Waiting times, which can be fatal, are growing.  Ally was on a transplant list twice after that day in the parking lot. She’s now married, living with her second heart and a long, jagged scar, the top of which is visible whenever she wears an open-necked shirt. She has endured more surgeries for heart-related conditions, and more hospitalizations, and near daily wrangling with insurance companies. She manages, usually with good grace. Except for the abuse of passers-by who don’t know how lucky they are. Mimi Swartz, an executive editor at Texas Monthly, is a contributing opinion writer and the author of “Ticker, the Quest to Build an Artificial Heart.”  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 