Since Paul Manafort was convicted last week, the president and his associates have encouraged speculation about it. Rudy Giuliani, President Trump’s personal lawyer, claims that he has agreed not to pardon anyone related to the investigation by Robert Mueller, the special counsel, until it is completed. Mr. Giuliani explained that he and the president were concerned that a pardon at this stage could be viewed as obstruction of justice. Yet other reporting suggests that Mr. Trump remains eager to move forward on a pardon and is even considering cutting the White House counsel, Don McGahn (who is opposed to it), out of the process.  Whether and when he acts, it appears that Mr. Trump has already embarked on a strategy of using his pardon power to silence witnesses in the Mueller investigation. In other words, at this point, dangling the prospect of a pardon or going ahead and exercising it amounts to the same thing: obstruction of justice. The only proper course for the president and his surrogates would have been to say nothing about Mr. Manafort or a possible pardon — but that is decidedly not the path they have chosen.  Mr. Trump and his lawyers have signaled to Mr. Manafort that a future pardon is very likely. This strategy offers the president several advantages and may be the most cunning way to undermine the Mueller investigation. If he pardoned Mr. Manafort now, Mr. Trump would pay a political cost. In addition, he and his lawyers have surely recognized that a pardon now could, paradoxically, help Mr. Mueller’s investigation. Right now, the special counsel can’t compel Mr. Manafort’s testimony because he has a Fifth Amendment privilege not to incriminate himself. But a pardon would free Mr. Mueller to subpoena Mr. Manafort to the grand jury to testify, because he cannot fear incriminating himself and criminal liability if he cannot be prosecuted.  Previously, Mr. Trump has reportedly suggested to aides and friends that Mr. Manafort could incriminate him — indeed, there is evidence in the public record suggesting that Mr. Manafort may have played a key role in conspiring with Russians who interfered in the 2016 election.  But if given a presidential pardon, why would Mr. Manafort provide potentially damaging information to a grand jury against Mr. Trump? Because he would open himself up to a different legal peril: If he refused to say anything, he could be jailed for contempt. As his lawyers would tell him, such contempt orders cannot be lifted by a presidential pardon. If he lied to the grand jury, he would risk being detected by Mr. Mueller’s team, and a pardon for past conduct would not cover such perjury. In short, Mr. Mueller and his prosecutors would bring tremendous pressure on Mr. Manafort to testify and to be substantially truthful.  Nevertheless, the strategy of waiting to pardon is not without risks for the president. For one, Mr. Manafort might lose confidence in the president and head for a plea deal. Mr. Trump may also want to issue a pardon sooner than later to signal to other potential cooperators that he has their backs.  For the moment, Mr. Trump appears to be trying to have it all: dangling a pardon down the line to keep Mr. Manafort quiet, giving the president the benefits of a pardon without requiring him to pay substantial political costs. That requires assuring Mr. Manafort that a pardon will very likely come, and Mr. Giuliani has obliged, telling reporters that Mr. Trump himself raised the subject of a Manafort pardon.  Mr. Trump’s statements on Mr. Manafort have read like the first draft of a future pardon statement. The president described the prosecution of Mr. Manafort as a “witch hunt” and “a disgrace.” After the verdict he tweeted that he felt “very badly for Paul Manafort and his wonderful family”; told reporters that Mr. Manafort is “a good man”; and derided the case against him as a “12 year old tax case.” In an interview on “Fox and Friends,” the president, when asked about a possible pardon, responded by describing Mr. Manafort’s conduct as something “every consultant, every lobbyist in Washington probably does” and cataloging Mr. Manafort’s long history of public service.  There is very little doubt what signal the president is sending his longtime associate and former campaign chairman. But just in case the point was missed, the president said in the context of the federal prosecutions of his former aides and associates that flipping “almost ought to be illegal,” and he praised Mr. Manafort for refusing to “break” despite the “tremendous pressure” on him.  These words should be seen for what they are: an effort to keep Mr. Manafort quiet and to impede the investigation by encouraging potential witnesses not to cooperate. In this way, the president’s words about the judicial process matter, have real consequences and should not be discounted or dismissed as mere angry rants.  The Articles of Impeachment against Richard Nixon adopted by the House of Representatives included similar conduct: “Endeavoring to cause prospective defendants, and individuals duly tried and convicted, to expect favored treatment and consideration in return for their silence or false testimony.” Whether President Trump pardons today or continues to dangle a pardon in the future, it appears that he is using that power with the same objective as Mr. Nixon did.  It will be up to the American public, regardless of whether Congress ever acts, to consider whether Mr. Trump has grossly abused his powers as president and what he’s hiding.    Alex Whiting is a professor of law at Harvard Law School and a former federal prosecutor at the Department of Justice and the United States Attorney’s Office in Boston. Ryan Goodman is a professor of law at New York University and editor in chief of the blog Just Security.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 