Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s voluminous record, his opinion of the Supreme Court’s landmark abortion ruling, Roe v. Wade, and his views on legal precedent have deservedly been scrutinized in the lead-up to his confirmation hearings next week. But the Supreme Court’s 1992 decision in Planned Parenthood v. Casey, more than Roe, holds the key to understanding the stakes of Judge Kavanaugh’s potential confirmation.  It is Casey that now protects women’s access to reproductive health care in states whose restrictions on health care providers and patients threaten to close clinics or ban abortions outright. And the political lesson conservatives learned from Casey all but guarantees that a vote for Judge Kavanaugh is a vote not only to endanger abortion rights but to turn back the clock on a century of progressive reforms. On the eve of the presidential election of 1992, the court seemed poised to reconsider Roe in a case challenging several Pennsylvania abortion restrictions. Abortion-rights advocates thought Roe’s demise certain. They worried most that the court might gut Roe without overruling it. A decision that openly reversed Roe might galvanize abortion-rights voters in November. But if women slowly lost the right to choose abortion, no electoral reckoning would follow.  The court’s decision in Casey surprised everyone: Justices Anthony Kennedy, Sandra Day O’Connor and David Souter co-authored an opinion that upheld the core holding of Roe but gave states more leeway to regulate abortion through “informed consent” requirements, waiting periods and other barriers. Instead of the “strict scrutiny” that doomed most restrictions under Roe, a more pliable “undue burden” standard would apply to abortion regulations.  Activists on both sides condemned the ruling, but Casey included something for everyone. The decision placed abortion rights on firmer constitutional footing by grounding them in women’s dignity and equality. Women, the court said, needed reproductive choice to determine their individual destinies and to participate fully in the economic and social life of the nation. At the same time, Casey upheld states’ interest in protecting potential life, approving all but one of the challenged Pennsylvania regulations. As abortion-rights leaders feared, Casey’s undue burden standard allowed more restrictions than Roe. Many states have enacted laws that drastically limit access to reproductive health care, particularly for poor, rural and immigrant women who cannot afford to miss work and make repeated trips to clinics hundreds of miles away. But in 2016, Justice Kennedy provided the crucial vote to strike down, under Casey, a Texas law that shuttered half the state’s clinics by imposing excessively burdensome requirements on them.  For anti-abortion activists, Casey confirmed the paramount importance of judicial appointments. Casey’s co-authors were all Republican appointees. Anti-abortion conservatives vowed that never again would they allow a Republican president to squander Supreme Court nominations on unreliable judges.  Abortion opponents, like their adversaries, recognize the potential for electoral backlash if the court reverses Roe outright. Many would prefer abortion rights to die gradually and quietly. Merely by interpreting Casey to allow increasingly restrictive laws, the Supreme Court can stealthily smother choice without appearing to deliver a death blow. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said this summer that she could not support a nominee who had “demonstrated hostility to Roe” or to “established precedent.” Judge Kavanaugh reportedly told Ms. Collins recently that he considered Roe to be “settled law.” These statements should reassure no one. Casey, not Roe, is the established precedent that matters here. And it seems more likely that abortion rights will die a death by a thousand cuts through restrictive state laws allowed under Casey than by a reversal of Roe. Either way, a vote for Judge Kavanaugh is a vote to diminish reproductive freedom.  It is also a vote to advance a larger agenda. Over several decades, the conservative legal movement has linked opposition to reproductive choice with constitutional theories that enhance the rights of corporations at the expense of human beings. Conservatives have tethered the anti-abortion cause to a selective libertarianism that opposes government regulation of business but authorizes expansive executive power and state intrusion on individual liberties. Judge Kavanaugh would not have passed Federalist Society muster if he did not demonstrate allegiance to these principles. With this confirmation vote, then, much more than abortion rights hangs in the balance. So does the country’s ability to fight voter suppression, political corruption and racial intimidation; to protect clean air and water; to ensure safety for workers and consumers; to combat climate change; to enact sensible gun laws; to voluntarily integrate public schools; to provide necessary health care and preserve a basic social safety net; to protect civil rights and liberties; and to safeguard the integrity of all families.  Americans who put aside their qualms and voted for the president to secure Supreme Court justices who would end legal abortion may pay a high price for their choice. With one more justice, Mr. Trump’s Republican Party will fully control all three branches of government, eliminating the last check on his power. It matters little, therefore, what Judge Kavanaugh says to senators about Roe or “settled law.” Conservatives have learned the lessons of Casey too well to permit the appointment of another justice in the Anthony Kennedy mold. And abortion rights are one of many inevitable casualties of this appointment. Senators who vote yes will bear responsibility for all of them.  Serena Mayeri is a professor of law and history at the University of Pennsylvania Law School. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 