During the preparation for his second 2012 debate with Mitt Romney, I had to walk President Barack Obama through the conspiracy theories about the Benghazi attacks so he’d be ready for them: that he issued a “stand-down” order, for instance, to deny military assistance, or that we’d watched the attacks unfold in the White House via a drone feed. He didn’t believe me at first — unlike the current occupant of the Oval Office, he rarely watched cable news. “I’m serious,” I said. “It’s all over Fox.” Obama shook his head: “That’s some real tin-hat stuff.”  In the debate, Mr. Obama noted that he stood in the Rose Garden on Sept. 12, the day after the attack, and condemned it as an “act of terror.” Mr. Romney pounced, insisting repeatedly that the president had not done so. Mr. Obama, who had practiced his answer to this charge, replied, “get the transcript,” and the moderator, Candy Crowley, did just that, providing a rare real-time fact-check.  I watched the scene unfold backstage. Mr. Romney, a smart and serious man, reacted with disbelief. He was certain Mr. Obama had not called it an act of terror, even though the president had done so on national television from the Rose Garden. I shuddered a bit. I had grown used to Republicans using conspiracy theories to rile up their base. Watching Mr. Romney’s genuine shock, I confronted an even more disturbing reality: What if they actually believed these theories?  Mr. Obama may have gotten the best of that exchange. But having failed in 2012, the Republicans kept breathing oxygen into a meandering series of Benghazi conspiracy theories for four years — a trail that led all the way to Hillary Clinton’s private email server and, in some warped way, helped propel Donald Trump into the White House.  Last week, The New Yorker published what appears to be a 2017 National Security Council memo that describes me as the leader of a “network” of Obama officials working in concert to “undermine President Trump’s foreign policy.” Sure, all the former Obama officials — including me — have criticized President Trump’s foreign policy, and would like to see Democrats win elections. But the memo is deeply strange. Written in the same language that a normal National Security Council would use to describe Al Qaeda or ISIS, it refers to a “War Room,” “allied journalists,” and an “ops chief.” Never before, it seems, have a few guys with podcasts, academic postings and Twitter accounts constituted such a powerful evil empire.  What’s clear in reading the document, though, is that whoever wrote this conspiracy theory either believes it, or has chosen to believe it. Why does this conspiracy theory mind-set matter? And what does it tell us about the state of our politics today?  First, the memo is a glimpse into a world in which dissent is viewed as dangerous. A group of aides to a president from a different party must be part of some cabal, manipulating the media and working against America’s interests. This goes hand-in-glove with the “deep state” conspiracy, which has led President Trump to disparage the intelligence and law enforcement community, purge the State Department of expertise, urge investigations into political enemies and strip security clearances from former officials.  If you believe — or choose to believe — that dissent is dangerous, then it stands to reason that your National Security Council will focus on domestic political enemies rather than actual threats, like terrorist organizations. Second, in a politics fueled by conspiracy theory, it becomes impossible to separate a real conspiracy from a fake one. I experienced this dynamic in the investigation into Russia’s intervention in our 2016 election when Republicans publicly accused me of “unmasking” the identities of Trump officials in intelligence documents. I never did this, but that didn’t matter.  By creating conspiracy theories about the Russia investigation and equating them with the actual crime of conspiring with Russia to undermine American democracy, Mr. Trump and his lieutenants want to stir up enough phony equivalence among their supporters to evade accountability.  Third, a democracy cannot function in a politics fueled by conspiracy theories. If the United States government itself is cast as a deep state adversary of the president’s, how can he effectively lead it? If the media or people who hold different opinions are “enemies of the state,” then the compromise upon which democracy depends becomes impossible.  As we career toward the conclusion of the investigation by Robert Mueller, the special counsel, we can sense the coming clash of competing realities: between the facts laid out in carefully prepared legal proceedings, and the countercharges peddled by a president and his supporters who will never accept Mr. Mueller’s findings as anything other than a conspiracy to bring him down.  The irony is that so many of the charges leveled against Mr. Trump’s critics are rooted in projection: We are accused of creating a vast information ecosystem to perpetuate false narratives. The reality is that Trump and his supporters have succeeded in doing just that.  Consider this fact: In the run-up to the 2016 election, 41 percent of registered Republicans did not agree with the statement that Barack Obama was born in the United States, validating the conspiracy theory that launched Donald Trump’s ascent. That’s what years of talk radio, social media threads and Fox News outrage has sown.  Whether Mr. Trump and his allies actually believe these theories, or merely choose to believe them out of political expediency, they rode the back of a tiger — and now we have all ended up inside. Ben Rhodes, a former deputy national security adviser to President Obama, is the author of “The World As It Is: A Memoir of the Obama White House.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 