The political divide over the insurance provisions of the Affordable Care Act looks to be unbridgeable for now, but out of public view, Republicans and Democrats are quietly forging a consensus on an even more consequential aspect of medical care: improving its value for all Americans by increasing its quality and lowering its cost. This consensus — the so-called value agenda — is focused on reducing the health care system’s chronic waste and inefficiency. The effort goes back decades, involves both public and private-sector initiatives, and has been pursued under various banners. The agenda got a significant push from provisions enacted in the A.C.A. and from initiatives established during the Obama years. Health care experts of various political leanings generally agree that improving efficiency is crucial for making medical care affordable for all Americans.  One small indicator of progress: The Obama administration’s last acting administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Andy Slavitt, recently voiced approval of key changes proposed by the Trump administration in the rules for “accountable care organizations,” which are groups of health care providers that coordinate care for Medicare patients. Such organizations were a centerpiece initiative of President Barack Obama’s value agenda. President Trump’s health secretary, Alex Azar, is fully committed to building upon the agenda he inherited from the Obama administration and accelerating its progress by injecting even stronger incentives for improvement. The existing Obama-era initiatives point in the right direction, but so far, they haven’t delivered enough quantifiable improvement to be considered successful. Mr. Azar can step up the pace of progress by injecting more competition and market incentives into two of the initiatives he inherited. Accountable care organization plans were introduced to encourage hospitals, doctors and others to better coordinate how they care for Medicare patients. If they can cut costs while improving quality, the plans can share in the resulting savings with the federal government.  There’s an important role for the organizations in Medicare. Before them, beneficiaries could sign up for managed care only through Medicare’s private insurance option, called Medicare Advantage. These plans are paid fixed monthly fees per enrollee; they tend to be sponsored by large insurance companies.  An A.C.O. is different; it allows hospitals and doctors, rather than insurance plans, to take the lead in managing care more efficiently on behalf of patients. Some A.C.O.s have performed well, but overall, the program is still underperforming the expectations set when the A.C.A. was enacted in 2010.  A major flaw is the lack of a beneficiary enrollment process. Beneficiaries do not get to choose to enroll in an accountable care organization, as they do with Medicare Advantage plans. Instead, the Medicare program assigns beneficiaries to plans based on their use of physician services: If a beneficiary sees a doctor in an accountable care organization, then the beneficiary is assigned to it by the Medicare bureaucracy. The A.C.O. automatically becomes responsible for managing that beneficiary’s care even though, in most instances, the beneficiary is unaware that he or she has been assigned to it.  Since beneficiaries can go outside of their organization’s network without financial penalty, the plans have a limited ability to cooperate with their cost-cutting efforts.  Mr. Azar should use market competition to improve the A.C.O. plans’ performance. Medicare beneficiaries should be given the option each year to select from among competing Medicare Advantage plans, A.C.O.’s and the traditional fee-for-service program (beneficiaries should also select their drug coverage and supplemental insurance at the same time). Accountable care organizations should be allowed to share some of the savings from better management of patient care with the beneficiaries through premium discounts, and enrollees should pay more when they go outside of their network. Plans that are able to cut overall costs and improve the patient experience would attract enrollment and thrive.  Mr. Azar can improve a second Obama-era initiative by retooling “bundled payment” efforts.  With bundling, hospital systems, physician groups and other providers can get an all-inclusive fee from the Medicare program for an entire episode of care, such as joint replacement surgery and the implantation of a pacemaker. The bundle replaces the traditional approach of separate payments for each facility or practitioner caring for the patient. Bundled payments encourage hospitals and physicians to find cost reductions because they get paid a fixed total fee that does not increase with the provision of low-value services and unnecessary tests.  Currently, bundled payments are calculated by the government, based on Medicare’s traditional payment systems for inpatient stays, physician care and other services, minus 3 percent that the government pockets.  Mr. Azar should reverse how payments are set under the bundling initiatives by asking the providers to name their prices (and compete with one another) instead of presenting them with the fee the government will pay based on antiquated regulations. The government could use the prices submitted by providers to establish a fixed payment rate per episode in relevant markets, based on a weighted average (the government wouldn’t pay a rate that exceeds what would be paid in the absence of the bundling initiative). Actual payments would continue to be risk-adjusted based on the characteristics of individual patients.  To encourage providers to cut their costs and charge low prices, the government should share some of the savings with the patients who get their care from those charging below average prices. The stated prices of all providers nationwide would be posted and publicly available, too. President Obama’s Health and Human Services Department wanted to disrupt business as usual in health care to drive better value for patients and taxpayers. Alex Azar has the same goal, and is using many of the same tools. So there is some hope for progress on health care in the coming years after all. Lanhee J. Chen is a research fellow at the Hoover Institution and is director of domestic policy studies in the public policy program at Stanford University. James C. Capretta is a resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 