I always knew that the lazy days of summer were coming to an end when my family piled into our 1979 black Cadillac Eldorado with red leather interior and began a two-day journey from Morristown, N.J., to Hilton Head Island, S.C. In the late 1970s, my father saw advertisements that touted the natural beauty of Hilton Head and he wanted to experience it. My parents decided our family would have a vacation — time for family bonding and memory making — just like other families. So, two weeks before Labor Day, my father hoisted a four-bike rack onto the top of the car and tucked our wooden tennis rackets into the dwindling pockets of space in the trunk.  Every road trip has a soundtrack, and ours was filled with R&B classics. My favorite song was Sly and the Family Stone’s 1969 summer anthem, “Hot Fun in the Summertime.” It made me believe we were stealing time, flipping the calendar back to July. Those summer days. That’s when I had most of my fun.  I was too busy reading “Ramona the Brave” and guarding my space in the nonexistent middle seat between my two older sisters to notice that my father was growing more and more uncomfortable the farther south we drove. Once it got dark, the car fell silent. Before U.S. Highway 278 was completed in 1998, we had to follow a maze of two-lane country roads to get to Hilton Head. My father later remembered that he was not anxious as we drove through Virginia, but once we crossed the North Carolina state line, he took a deep breath, shook his head and sighed, “Well, we’re in the South now.” He had lived through segregation in the North; once while riding his bike along 43rd Street in Chicago, he cycled across State Street and was chased back by a group of white boys. Still, the South seemed more dangerous, more violent, more unpredictable. A Southerner by birth, my father had moved to Chicago from Augusta, Ga., in 1939 with his mother when he was 3, taking part in the massive exodus of African-Americans from the South. When he went back to Georgia to visit his relatives during the summers, he was forced to follow Jim Crow rules for how a black boy ought to behave. Boarding a city bus in Atlanta, my father took the first available seat, in the front. His grandmother grabbed him and pulled him toward the back. Uninitiated in the South’s racial customs and shaken by the bus driver’s menacing look, my father turned to his grandmother and asked over and over, “Why, why, why?” My great-grandmother was unflappable and strong-willed, and she left my father’s questions unanswered because it was better not to offer an explanation of laws that were inexplicable anyway. As my father later recalled, these events made a permanent impression on him as a child. He was left feeling terrified of white people, who seemed to have the power to control every move that a black person made. It would take a long time for him to think otherwise. [Discover the most compelling features, reporting and humor writing from The New York Times Opinion section, selected by our editors. Sign up for the Sunday Best newsletter.] Less than a decade after that bus ride, in 1953, the singer Dinah Shore famously urged Americans to “See the U.S.A. in your Chevrolet,” crooning, “On the highway, a road along a levee, performance is sweeter, nothing can beat her, life is completer in a Chevy.”  But most African-American motorists would not have access to the midcentury pleasures of taking to the open road she sang of: exploring the country, visiting national parks in the West and enjoying the freedom of driving one’s own car on newly constructed federal highways. The joys of “just going” that the Beat Generation novelist Jack Kerouac waxed lyrical about in the 1957 classic “On the Road” were very rarely available to black travelers, regardless of income level. African-Americans were largely left out of the car culture that flowered in the post-World War II period. In 1947, Lester Granger, the head of the National Urban League, wrote, “So far as travel is concerned, Negroes are America’s last pioneers.” No wonder. An article in Negro Digest in 1950 described the troubles that black travelers encountered in “gaining admittance to all but the cheapest of restaurants and the most flea-bitten of hotels” and explained that “travel for Negroes inside … the United States can become an experience so fraught with humiliation and unpleasantness that most colored people simply never think of a vacation in the same terms as the rest of America.” Jim Crow was temperamental and capricious: Behavior that was acceptable in one town might not be in another town a few miles down the road. White service station operators generally would allow black motorists to purchase gasoline but they might refuse to sell the driver a Coca-Cola or to open the bathroom, which could cause great humiliation, especially in front of one’s children. In Mississippi, laws prohibited black motorists from passing white drivers on country roads, where their cars might kick up dust onto white-owned vehicles. Wearing a chauffeur’s cap or pretending to deliver a car for a white person enabled blacks to give the socially acceptable appearance of servitude and dependence. The Negro Motorist Green Book directed African-Americans to safe and welcoming hotels, restaurants and gas stations. The introduction stated that since the first printing of the guide in 1936, “it has been our idea to give the Negro traveler information that will keep him from running into difficulties, embarrassments, and to make his trips more enjoyable.” There were many victims of the vagaries of the road. President John Kennedy personally apologized to Dr. William Fitzjohn, the chargé d’affaires of Sierra Leone, after he was refused service at a Howard Johnson’s restaurant in Hagerstown, Md. The white owners of another Maryland restaurant unceremoniously cast out Adam Malick Sow, the ambassador of Chad, and made it clear it was because he was black. Struggles like these laid the groundwork for the signing of the Civil Rights Act in 1964 that guaranteed equal access to public accommodations for African-Americans. But black travelers continued to experience trauma long after the bill’s passage. Just a month later, on Aug. 4, the remains of three civil rights workers — Michael Schwerner, Andrew Goodman and James Chaney — were found in Philadelphia, Miss. Members of the Ku Klux Klan shot them to death on an unmarked dirt road and buried their bodies in an earthen dam. Their burned-out car was discovered submerged in a swamp. In just the past four years, the deaths of Sandra Bland, Laquan McDonald and Philando Castile at the hands of police officers remind us that African-American motorists remain far from sanctuary. These days, I fly from San Francisco to Savannah, Ga., rent a car and drive just over an hour to reach Hilton Head. My parents still travel in a Cadillac, but now it is a gray S.U.V. that lacks the flair of the Eldorado.  “Should we rent bikes this summer?” I ask, willfully ignoring the reality that at 82, my father can no longer hop on and off a bike or coast serenely with one foot on a pedal and the other dangling on the same side.  I’ve often wondered why my parents risked so much to drive to Hilton Head year after year, knowing the perils of traveling but getting on the road anyway. As my mother recently reminded me, for black people “it was dangerous everywhere.” Perhaps it was the influence of my great-grandmother, who pulled my father to the back of the bus but also taught him that he was cherished and deserved to experience the world like any other child. He carried those lessons with him and passed them down. Allyson Hobbs is an associate professor of American history and director of African and African-American studies at Stanford University. She is the author of “A Chosen Exile: A History of Racial Passing in American Life.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 