Brett Kavanaugh’s supporters call him an originalist. It’s a natural label to apply to the conservative judge who is President Trump’s choice for the Supreme Court. In theory, originalism gives judges a method for transcending politics by interpreting the Constitution based on its meaning when it was ratified in 1788 or later amended. Since the 1970s, originalism has been both an animating principle and a marketing success for conservative jurisprudence. Fairly or not, conservatives have used it as a cudgel against liberal judges, attacking them for inventing new rights to protect minorities, political dissenters and criminal suspects. Its selling point has been its claim to neutrality.  But Judge Kavanaugh hasn’t earned his originalist badge. It’s being fixed to him to mask the fact that as an appeals court judge, he relentlessly pressed forward a Republican agenda favoring business and religious interests. Judge Kavanaugh leaned a bit toward an originalist approach in two opinions, one in 2008, the other in 2011. But when he was asked in 2016 whether he considered himself an originalist, he didn’t answer, and in a 2017 lecture, he expressed caution. “History and tradition, liberty, and judicial restraint and deference to the legislature,” he explained, “compete for primacy of place in different areas of the Supreme Court’s jurisprudence.”  To a pure originalist, this is an incoherent mixing of methodologies. Any ruling that departs from the original meaning should be thrown out. Judge Kavanaugh has called for no such thing.  Instead, he has proudly said that he’s a textualist, which means that he gives primacy to the ordinary meanings of the words of a statute, or the Constitution itself. Textualists steer away from other sources of meaning, like legislative history. Conservatives have often touted textualism for its neutral deference to the legislature. Three of the court’s conservative members — Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Samuel Alito and Neil Gorsuch — lay claim to textualism as a guiding principle.  But textualism doesn’t serve as an overarching theory for conservative jurisprudence. Textualist interpretation can produce liberal as well as conservative interpretations of statutes. And because ambiguous phrasing in laws leaves judges with choices to make, it doesn’t put much of a restraint on judges. As Judge Kavanaugh has said, quoting the liberal-moderate Justice Elena Kagan, “We are all textualists now.” This means that textualism offers neither a clear dividing line from liberals nor the historical gravitas of originalism. If Judge Kavanaugh is confirmed, there will be only one dyed-in-the-wool originalist left among the justices — Clarence Thomas — who is also, at 70, the oldest member of the court’s conservative wing. The court’s other leading originalist, Antonin Scalia, died in 2016. This shift away from originalism is a window into the conservative movement’s priorities as it prepares to lock in a five-member Supreme Court majority. Originalism is no longer the powerful tool it once was for advancing a conservative jurisprudence.  This is clear from the conservatives’ expansive interpretation of the First Amendment’s guarantee of free speech, an approach that has no historical support from the time the First Amendment was written. Despite this, in a series of decisions, from Citizens United in 2010, which opened a faucet of campaign donations and spending, to Janus v. AFSCME in June, which diminished the clout of unions by stopping them from collecting dues from all the workers they represent, conservatives have used the First Amendment to strike down laws that regulate corporations, help unions and limit the influence of money on politics. Tellingly, the court has accepted far more cases involving challenges to regulations of conservative speech than previous courts, with a win rate of 69 percent, compared with 21 percent for cases involving liberal speech. Judge Kavanaugh, too, has embraced this business-friendly interpretation of the First Amendment. Nor is there founding-era evidence for some of the new anti-regulatory doctrines the court has begun to accept. In the past few decades, conservatives put considerable energy into attacking the administrative state. The most radical idea is that regulatory agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency lack the authority to issue regulations; a more modest version is that they can do so only if Congress is crystal clear about it. In his opinions and other writings, Judge Kavanaugh has pushed this theme as well. On questions about the scope of presidential power, the founding-era evidence also suggests significant limits. But Judge Kavanaugh has signaled that he rejects them. He has written that it’s “debatable” that a president can be indicted while in office and criticized a case that allowed Congress to create an independent counsel to investigate executive branch officials. Again, there is no historical evidence to support that view. Here, once more, principled originalism could give way to the modern conservative position favoring a strong presidency. With five reliable members, the court’s conservative wing will be in a position to accomplish much, and for the most part it will be easier to achieve its goals without originalism. Expect a reappearance, however, when it comes time to reconsider the constitutional right to abortion access established in Roe v. Wade. With that important exception, originalism has largely served its purpose and can be cast away.  That creates a problem for conservatives. Judge Kavanaugh’s supporters call him an originalist rather than the pro-business Republican he is because of the theory’s claim that it separates law from politics.  As the gap between originalism and the greater goals of conservative jurisprudence widens, however, the claim that the Supreme Court stands above the political fray, already damaged, will become harder to sustain.  To his credit, Judge Kavanaugh has struggled with the politicization of the court he is poised to join. “When we watch the Supreme Court, too many Americans think the decision is pre-baked based on the party of the president who appointed the justices,” he has said. Yet his record and public statements suggest that his tenure on the court will confirm this view. Emily Bazelon is a staff writer at The New York Times Magazine and the Truman Capote fellow at Yale Law School. Eric Posner is a professor at the University of Chicago Law School.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 