Frank Bruni: Summer is effectively over, September is upon us, the school year begins, and you, Ross, and I have a new homework assignment: For the next two months, we’ll alternate from one week to the next with our esteemed colleagues Gail Collins and Bret Stephens in conducting these conversations about current events. Here we go!  There’s so much potentially to chew over this week, including the confirmation hearings of Brett Kavanaugh, which we’ll get to shortly, and it also makes sense that you and I, who both have written a lot over time about the Catholic Church, touch briefly on its moment of crisis. But I want to start with the midterm elections, which shift into high gear beginning, well, now. Specifically, I want to note that this coming Friday, in Illinois, President Barack Obama will accept a big award, give a big speech and commence a fall schedule of many more public appearances than he has made since leaving the White House. He’s poised to transition from volitional hermit to Democratic clarion and cheerleader. It’s impossible that this won’t rile his infamously rile-able successor, and it raises the question of whether, in one sense, from a certain angle, the battle between Republicans and Democrats this fall will look and feel like Trump vs. Obama. Ross Douthat: Frank, it’s a pleasure to share the autumnal months with you, even if right now it’s still summer and feels like it will remain so for eternity. I agree, it will be interesting to watch Obama on the campaign trail, since he’s distinguished himself thus far as the most Zen of all prominent Democrats about the Trump phenomenon: The sheer, deliberate normalcy of his post-presidential conduct has been an interesting counterpoint to the prominent Democrats determined to reject anything that smacks of “normalizing” in our Trumpian times. I suspect that Zen approach will pay some modest political dividends this fall, since it’s helped keep Obama’s post-presidential approval ratings high and given him some capital to spend in the last few months of this campaign season. On the other hand, both 2010 and 2014 demonstrated the limits of Obama’s ability to play the get-out-the-vote powerhouse when he himself isn’t on the ballot. Bruni: True, but there are peculiar aspects of 2018 that could mean he looms large this fall. We’ve now had nearly two years of Trump’s vicious public discourse and roller-coaster governance; in that context, Obama is something akin to but slightly different from the road not taken. He’s the boulevard sorely missed. Also, you made an excellent point, Ross, about his having amassed political capital since January 2017 by not sounding off all the time. He’s the opposite of the boy who cried wolf. He’s the man who communed with his inner lamb. And voters may well be in the mood for something soft and fleecy right about now. In 2016, Hillary Clinton was far too formidable and divisive a figure for that election to be a referendum on Obama. It was a referendum on her. So maybe 2018 more strongly reflects his standing and his determination — and voters’ — to preserve his legacy.  Douthat: But my general take on this election is that it’s really Trump vs. Trump. By which I mean, whether the Democrats can turn their advantage into a rout will depend on something beyond their control — the president’s own conduct in September and October, which could be worth a few extra points to Democrats if it’s manic and authoritarian and kooky, and a few extra points to Republicans if it’s (relatively) restrained. What do you think of that framing?  Bruni: Will Trump’s conduct be a central factor? Yes, yes and yes. A few weeks ago, I talked extensively on background with a prominent Republican strategist who’s involved in the party’s efforts this fall, and he made the point that the party can find the right messaging, get all of its candidates in line, deploy the right amount of money to the right races — all of that — and then be utterly foiled by a presidential temper tantrum in the final week. The strategist noted that there’s one person in the party who can never, ever be expected to swallow his pride, suppress his emotions and follow a prudent script, and that’s the party’s leader, one Donald J. Trump. Douthat: I wouldn’t say “never, ever,” since I can’t always decide how much self-control the president possesses. Watching most of his campaign, and watching the early, manic, “Hey, maybe I’ll just fire Comey” phase of his presidency, I decided that he simply couldn’t master himself sufficiently to execute the job of president. (Hence my interest in 25th Amendment options.)  But there are enough lines he hasn’t crossed since then (even if he’s rubbed them out or kicked sand across them) to make me think that there must be some self-control lurking beneath the carapace, some ability to pull on the reins before the horse goes completely off the cliff. Even in the 2016 race, where time and again (the Judge Curiel business, the Alicia Machado business — even the “Ted Cruz’s dad killed J.F.K.” business around the time he clinched the nomination) he seemed unable to restrain himself from total folly, he did manage to avoid terrible blowups in those last two weeks before the election. And without that restraint he probably wouldn’t be president.  Bruni: I’ll grant you that he has fleeting episodes of uncharacteristic calm. Maybe he just gets tired. He’s no spring chicken and he exercises too little: Golf isn’t all that aerobic.  Douthat: I’m just saying I would not be completely surprised if Trump’s Twitter feed goes dark and his swirling madness abates, conveniently enough for his party’s chances, on Oct. 15 or so.  Bruni: But please note that I said that he can never, ever “be expected” — and that’s the key. No one can plan on him. No one can count on him, in part because his self-consumption is too mammoth to allow discipline in the service of a group cause.  If we’re looking for Trump discipline and order, though, there’s no better example of it — from a Republican and conservative perspective — than his choices and his administration’s shepherding-through of Supreme Court nominees. Which brings us to Kavanaugh. I am beyond depressed at the advent of the hearings, because they’re so fake and meaningless in the end. Don’t get me wrong: His addition to the court will matter and matter greatly. But the next few days are an elaborate dance in the direction of a foregone conclusion. Douthat: They are an extensive exercise in senatorial grandstanding, defensible only on the grounds that days and days of stupefying boredom might somehow prompt a judicial nominee to break down, Colonel Jessup-style, and scream, “You’re goddamn right I’m going to overturn Roe v. Wade!” But Brett Kavanaugh was genetically engineered by mad scientists working in the Federalist Society’s basement to never, ever, break down, so I suspect he’s going to breeze right through. I had a number of reasons to prefer Amy Coney Barrett, a federal appellate judge and former Notre Dame professor whom Trump reportedly (though who knows) was considering as a more base-pleasing alternative, but the purely journalistically self-interested one was that something random and interesting seemed likely to come up around her nomination, before or during the hearing. Kavanaugh, though, was a boringly safe choice (nothing against the man himself), and there’s every reason to assume that his hearings will be boring (and therefore useless) as well.  Bruni: Because Kavanaugh’s confirmation is a virtually sure thing, these hearings are instead about the midterms. Democratic senators are going to use their questioning of Kavanaugh, overtly and subtly, to make the case that the nation is heading too far down a dangerously Republican and conservative road, especially in terms of putting abortion rights, voting rights and social-justice progress in jeopardy. And they’re right to make that case. The question, as you note, is whether it’s persuasive enough in its urgency to turn voters out for Democratic House, Senate and gubernatorial candidates on Nov. 6. Douthat: Yes, and on the Republican side, precisely because of their likely tedium and semi-assured outcome, the hearings probably won’t be as politically useful (in a base-galvanizing way) to Trump as a more contentious nomination might have been. Indeed, if Kavanaugh is confirmed smoothly, it might actually be a kind of permission slip to a certain kind of reluctant Trump voter (I’m especially thinking of pro-life women) to say, well, we got the nominations we wanted from this White House, so it’s O.K. to stay home on Election Day.  Bruni: These hearings are also about the 2020 presidential election. It’s worth noting that at least three potential Democratic presidential contenders — Amy Klobuchar, Cory Booker and Kamala Harris — will get to ask Kavanaugh questions. Which means that they won’t really be asking questions per se. They’ll be swept up in an audition, a preen-a-thon, “American Idol: Democratic Nominee Edition.” For those who want to skip it, I can give you an oxymoronic advance recap: Kavanaugh dodges question; Klobuchar delivers rousing soliloquy; Kavanaugh punts; Booker wows the room with fierce words; Kavanaugh sidesteps; Harris’s voice rises high.   Douthat: If one of them can get Kavanaugh to lose his cool, that senator will be the Democratic nominee by default — though really, I half expect Michael Avenatti to crash the hearings and try to effect a citizen’s arrest of Kavanaugh, at which point he’ll be handed the Democratic nomination by acclamation.  A little more seriously, I don’t think the hearings matter for Democratic turnout because the courts never seem to matter for Democratic turnout. Antonin Scalia’s death loomed large among Trump’s reluctant Republican supporters and Trump made it clear he knew it; Merrick Garland’s pocket-vetoed nomination was about 17 talking points deep in Hillary Clinton’s list of reasons to vote Democratic. And likewise today: Sure, there’s part of the Resistance that’s ready to link Kavanaugh to “The Handmaid’s Tale” and show up in red dresses to protest him, but in general Democratic enthusiasm centers on Trump and his awfulness, not a conservative court and its potential works.  Bruni: I agree that while many elections should turn on the high court, they don’t, but I’m not sure it’s as neat and clean in this case. I think the prospect of Roe being overturned — the idea that it is indeed vulnerable — is one of many forces combining in incalculable ways to energize women voters in 2018.  Douthat: One of many, I’ll grant, but not nearly the most important one. Maybe that will change if Kavanaugh does vote to overturn Roe, or if the sainted Ruth Bader Ginsburg ends up being replaced by Trump as well. But for now I don’t think 2018 is going to be the year when the politics of judicial nominations dramatically helps the Democrats, any more than in 2016.  Bruni: But it may well be “the year of the woman,” a designation that 2018 arguably deserves more than previous election cycles that were given that title did. There's an intensified competition for and focus on women voters in the suburbs. We have a remarkable surge of women candidates, campaigning in gender-embracing ways that they haven’t before. Who’s to say where Kavanaugh’s nomination fits into all of that? The court can be more an ambient than an immediate issue, is what I mean. Douthat: I agree that surging anti-Trumpism among women is one of the biggest political forces of our moment; indeed, I’ve written about how political polarization by gender is becoming as important as polarization by race and class. But I think that the courts and Roe are a minor theme in that symphony: In general, women tend to be as divided over abortion as men, and my sense is that anti-Trump sentiment is being driven much more by simple backlash against his personal misogyny, folded together with the large #MeToo moment, than by the pre-existing social-issue debates. Bruni: Speaking of women, Ross, it has long been my feeling that the Catholic Church could make two changes that would definitely diminish the likelihood of child sexual abuse by priests going forward. One is to do away with clerical celibacy. The other is to ordain women. And lest you think I’m just giving you some reflexively liberal cant: The first book I ever wrote, in 1993, was about the epidemic of child sexual abuse by Catholic priests. The problem went back that far and has been going on that long — longer, actually — and I’ve done hundreds of interviews (with psychiatrists, bishops, victims, even abuser priests) over the years on this subject.  Douthat: Honestly, I think the age of #MeToo should cast some serious doubt on the theory — I won't call it “cant,” but I do think it edges in that direction — that celibacy simply and straightforwardly causes priestly misbehavior. If there’s anything we’ve learned, surely, from the Weinstein nightmare — and from prep schools and Penn State and NBC and Donald Trump’s payoffs and a million other examples — it’s that cultures that enable sexual abuse and predation can be a problem no matter whether the environment is liberal or conservative, religious or secular, ascetic or sybaritic. The real problem for Catholics now is twofold. First, the bishops who presided over that horror are in many cases still in power, and so even decades-old revelations implicate our current leaders, in America and Rome. And second, the question of why exactly the scandal happened in the first place and how we should think about it is tangled up in a larger liberal-conservative conflict — over celibacy, marriage, homosexuality and more — that Pope Francis has only heightened. But that’s probably a rabbit hole for another time. Bruni: To respond to all that you just said would indeed take me and readers too deep down a rabbit hole. So, way too briefly: As the recent Pennsylvania report illustrated, the scope of what happened in the Catholic Church does not find the easy parallels elsewhere in society that you suggest. And while you are 100 percent right that the church seems to have made significant preventive strides over time, so that the problem is not what it once was, it remains the case that a celibate priesthood was too often, understandably, a refuge for men running away from sexual feelings that they didn’t want to deal with. Once in that culture, those strangled feelings sometimes manifested in impermissible, destructive ways.  I’m not talking about all or most priests, but I am talking about a troubling fraction of them, and the dangers of the celibate culture haven’t disappeared with church reform. But that’s enough about that for this time, Ross. We’ll meet again in two weeks? Douthat: Indeed we will! And I fear we’ll have ample opportunity to discuss the church’s difficulties, and our differing interpretations, as the fall proceeds. Until next time, Frank. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion).