Op-Docs The World Trade Center wreckage once smoldered here. Now visitors come from around the world to learn, remember and grieve.  By Sara Newens Ms. Newens is an independent filmmaker. A few weeks after the twin towers fell on Sept. 11, 2001, New York City began allowing people into downtown Manhattan again. And so I went, with my 35 mm camera in tow, as I often did back then to document street life. I can still remember the subway feeling so hollow, save for a few brief moments when extended eye contact with a stranger meant acknowledging our collective broken heart.  Police barricades and National Guard members would allow us within only three blocks of ground zero, just close enough to glimpse scraps of metal dangling next to the gaping hole in our skyline. The only thing we could do at that point was bear witness, even if that meant holding shattered glass in our hands or writing “God Bless America” through the thick layer of ash coating every surface. In 2016, I visited those same grounds for the first time since the memorial was completed. The space had evolved but my intent was the same — to bear witness. And though 15 years had gone by, I found myself expecting the mood to be as somber as those first weeks after the towers came down. To my surprise, myriad experiences were unfolding before me; I was struck most by the barrage of selfie-takers, smiling family portraits, distracted teenagers on their devices and briefcase-clad men and women taking business calls … all just steps away from grieving visitors, family members of the victims, and young children trying to wrap their heads around what transpired long before they were born.  Admittedly, I was a bit perplexed by the commotion, as I’d imagined an environment with more reverence and reflection. But as I settled into the surroundings, my judgment dissipated. I was immersed in a symphony of experiences that unified the space, a tourist destination and graveyard at once.  For many years I’ve wanted to make a purely observational film like this one. It’s an approach that often lacks a central character to guide the narrative, and it requires the viewer to actively participate and interpret the meaning as it relates to their own experience. So I set out to document this commemorative shared space, echoing its function as a place for both observation and reflection. To me, what we captured encapsulates a moment in our shared history that is both far from and still painfully close to this tragedy that forever changed our world.  As we approach another anniversary, I will think about all the ways we choose to commemorate tragedy both publicly and privately, and how tuning in and tuning out of our surroundings is a choice we must make over and over in our daily lives. I will also think deeply about those who perished and all the lives they touched, hoping for more healing all around, as the sun sets on another day.  Sara Newens is a freelance filmmaker and former New Yorker currently living in Los Angeles. Op-Docs is a forum for short, opinionated documentaries by independent filmmakers. Learn more about Op-Docs and how to submit to the series. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Op-Docs newsletter.