One day, 20 years ago, my life changed.  I had already broached the topic of gender issues with my beloved, and she knew that I was struggling, trying to express myself now and again, without going into full-on transition. I didn’t want to harm her, or our kids, or the other people I loved. Back then, the idea of being out as transgender seemed impossible to me. I thought that that life promised only mortification and loss, possibly even violence.  I also felt that this was my job as a man: to silently bear all sorts of burdens to protect the ones I loved. I saw myself as their shield. It was a job I gladly shouldered, even though sometimes I suffered for it. We lived in Ireland from 1998 to 1999, in a small apartment in Cork. It was a good life. We’d shop for salmon at the vast English Market downtown, make soda bread, take the kids to preschool. We listened to lots of music and drank pints of Murphy’s and it was great. Then, one day, I accidentally knocked a wine glass off a table, and it shattered on the kitchen floor. I swept up the shards. A day or two later, someone rang the doorbell, and I ran to see who it was. As I did, I must have stepped on a tiny sliver of glass from that shattered goblet. I felt the sharp pain as it pierced my left heel. For the next week or so, I walked around Cork with that tiny sliver in my heel. I can’t remember if I didn’t think there was really glass in my foot or if I thought it would work itself out, or what. But slowly it began to hurt more and more and more. Finally, I realized I couldn’t keep just pretending it wasn’t there. So I went to the emergency room at Cork University Hospital, a strangely decrepit institution, given the prosperity of Ireland at the time. I remember seeing pools of blood on the floor. It took a long time before someone saw me. Then staff members took me into an operating room and jabbed my foot with painkillers, although not nearly enough. For 10,000 years, they hunted around in my heel for the sliver as I lay there screaming. At last they found it. My wife was there when I finished, and she took me in her arms, and drove me to the apothecary to get a post-procedure prescription filled. I waited in the car — a gray Opel — while she went in to fill the script. When she came back to the car, she found me sobbing. It was as hard as I’d ever wept in my life. She held me as I cried and shook. I think in that moment I was realizing that my whole life had been like this. For years I had walked around with something piercing me to the core, and I had just pretended it was all fine, because I thought I had to. But I wasn’t fine, and I had finally reached the limits of my being able to pretend. I needed to get to a place where I didn’t hurt anymore. I needed to stop being the one who was always shielding everyone else, and to be the one who was cared for. I wouldn’t begin my transition proper for another nine months or so, until after we came back to the United States. But when I look back, that was the day I shattered like a goblet. That was the day I realized I couldn’t take one more step. I was 40 years old at the time. People often ask late transitioners, why now, after all this time? What kind of woman do you think you can be, after missing your girlhood and your adolescence? But those aren’t the questions one should ask. The question is, how did you manage to go so long? What enabled you to keep carrying your burden in secret, walking around with a shard of glass in your foot, for all those years? This story may be less about what it is like to come out as trans than it is about finding the courage to do a difficult thing, even if you are no longer young, even if you do not know how. Trans people are surely not the only ones who wonder how to close the gap between the people they feel they have to pretend to be and their authentic selves.  Individuals who arrive at such profound and difficult moments don’t deserve to be interrogated and scoffed at and ridiculed. When it comes to trans folks, we don’t deserve clever think pieces about “What Makes a Woman?” We don’t deserve the cruel and the clueless telling us they know who we are better than we do.  People who arrive at this moment deserve to be held in someone’s arms. To be loved and protected. To be admired for the burden they tried to carry to protect others. And to have their courage celebrated. It is never too late to live your life. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 