First, the revelations about the Trump White House in Bob Woodward’s forthcoming book are shocking. Many White House officials do not respect the president, and they’re quite happy to leak damaging anecdotes about him. For anyone who spent time in Washington during the Bush and Obama years — when both presidents were largely revered by their staffs — it’s a jarring change.  But it is no longer surprising. It’s been abundantly clear for a long time that President Trump is unfit for the office — and that the people who work for him somehow manage both to disdain him and to continue protecting him at the expense of the country. For more, read The Washington Post’s summary of the book and Jonathan Chait’s commentary about it for New York magazine.  The Supreme Court. The raucous opening day of Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s confirmation hearing wasn’t, for the most part, about him. It was about the Republican Party’s hardball, rule-changing tactics in transforming the federal courts.  “Democrats are driving home that Republicans keep changing the rules,” Vox’s Tara Golshan wrote. In particular, Democrats yesterday were blasting the last-minute release — without time for scrutiny — of tens of thousands of documents related to Kavanaugh’s time as a White House aide during George W. Bush’s presidency.  “This is not the debate Republicans wanted to have,” James Wallner, a former Republican Senate staff member, tweeted yesterday morning. “Note: Kavanaugh hasn’t been debated once. It’s just the process, the documents. Democrats have framed this debate 100%.” A little history is useful here. Both parties, without question, have played a role in making the courts more partisan and overtly political. As Republicans like to emphasize, the Democrats were the ones who first rejected a nominee based strictly on ideology: Robert Bork, in 1987. In Bork’s place, President Ronald Reagan ultimately nominated the more moderate Anthony Kennedy, whose retirement in turn led to Kavanaugh’s nomination. But it’s also the case that Republicans have done much more than Democrats to politicize the courts. How so? One, they have rejected a significantly higher percentage of Democratic nominees since 1981 than Democrats have rejected Republican nominees, according to data collected by the legal scholar Russell Wheeler. This high rejection rate eventually led Senate Democrats during the Obama years to eliminate the filibuster for federal appeals court judges. (That move has recently received criticism, because Republicans later did the same for Supreme Court nominees, but I still think Democrats had no better alternative, given Republican obstruction.) Two, Republicans have nominated more politically extreme judges than Democrats have, as research by Lee Epstein of Washington University and others has shown. Jason Zengerle’s recent Times Magazine piece and the accompanying episode of The Daily podcast have more details. Three, Republicans stole a Supreme Court seat by refusing to let President Barack Obama fill a vacancy in 2016. There was no precedent for such a move, and it was vastly more radical than anything Democrats have done. The seat effectively decided many of the court’s biggest cases last year, and it will shape the court for decades. As I’ve written before, I expect the Senate to confirm Kavanaugh. Republicans have the votes to do so, and they’ve shown no signs of splintering. If I’m right about that, this week’s hearings are more about framing the debate over the future of the courts than anything else.  And Democrats are absolutely right to use the occasion to explain how radical Senate Republicans — and, by extension, large parts of the federal judiciary — have become.  Finally, Congressional districts change over the years. But the closest thing to today’s Seventh Congressional District in Massachusetts was previously represented by John F. Kennedy, Tip O’Neill and Joe Kennedy II.  Starting in January, it will almost certainly be represented by Ayanna Pressley, who beat the incumbent handily in the Democratic primary last night. She would be the first African-American ever to represent Massachusetts in the House.  You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. You can subscribe to this newsletter here. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).