Commentary on Supreme Court nominations these days is more akin to sportscasters announcing a close baseball game: “The liberals and conservatives are tied going into the bottom of the ninth. Brett Kavanaugh, a promising rookie pitcher with a strong minor league record, is coming in to replace the streaky Anthony Kennedy. When Kennedy was hot, the conservatives won, but when he slumped, the liberals could squeeze by. Kavanaugh seems a lot steadier than Kennedy.” This way of handicapping Supreme Court nominees has a definite allure. We all love a horse race, and politics often seems like one. But for court nominations, sports analogies are dangerously misleading. It is true that knowing the party of the president and the nominee provides a strong indication of how the nominee will later vote in cases of sharp partisan differences on the underlying policy issue — for example, the recent Janus v. Afscme decision barring a union from imposing agency fees on nonmembers.  But in 75 percent of cases, partisan affiliation is not fully predictive of justices’ votes. In the hardest ones, lower courts reached different results despite seeing the same evidence, and considering the same legal arguments. This week, senators should spend less time grandstanding with questions that simply highlight Judge Kavanaugh’s well-known ideological positions, and a lot more time trying to assess how he would vote in these much trickier cases. What accounts for these “circuit splits”? In hard cases, excellent legal arguments (not just ideological ones) can be made on both sides, often because the relevant legal principles are unclear or conflicting. Also, judges (and administrative agencies initially) can reasonably interpret the key facts differently. The competing values (there may be more than two) may be compelling. Most justices care about a decision’s legal and social consequences, yet in hard cases these effects may be opaque and unpredictable — perhaps because they depend on what the states decide to do.  In some hard cases — Brown v. Board of Education or same-sex marriage, for example — the legal and social landscape may have shifted so much that even conservative justices, who normally resist “living Constitution” arguments, may take these changes into account. In clashes between national security and individual rights claims (e.g., the recent travel ban decision), even liberal justices may defer to the government’s judgment. And it is hard to predict how courts will apply the multiple criteria — what Judge Kavanaugh referred to in his testimony this week as “precedents on precedents” — for deciding when precedents may be overturned. This is why even some conservative justices may resist overturning Roe v. Wade. (They may try to eviscerate it in other ways, of course.)  And, of course, even on the Supreme Court, politics has a way of trumping ideology in unpredictable ways. Who would have expected that Chief Justice John Roberts would seek out a way to rescue the Affordable Care Act in National Federation of Independent Business v. Sebelius? Media and politicians have traditionally tended to ignore these complexities, preferring to depict a Manichaean liberal/conservative battle for legal supremacy. This perverse ideological focus hides or denies the fascinating interplay among legal doctrine, textual interpretation and the factual record in determining outcomes. It also crowds out the more revealing lawyerly divisions among the justices about what should matter in resolving hard cases — for example, the relative importance of national uniformity versus local diversity, of clear rules versus more contextual standards, of government authority versus individual rights, of deference to elected officials versus bureaucratic expertise, of the default rules for interpreting ambiguous language, and so forth.  Ideological labels are even misleading in their own terms. Real judges (like real people) mix liberalism on some issues with conservatism on others. For example, even the arch-conservative Antonin Scalia voted with liberals to uphold punitive jury awards against product manufacturers, adopting the position advocated by the trial lawyers (a leading Democratic lobby), because he thought the Constitution permits such awards.  The labels also reveal little about what should be our real concerns: the mix of values underlying them. For example, is a “law-and-order conservative” callous toward the life challenges faced by poor people, or instead sensitive to the depredations that crime inflicts on their communities? Is race-based affirmative action a policy that levels the playing field for all or instead one that advantages some minorities over others?  None of this means that partisan decision patterns don’t exist. But it does argue for a more nuanced view of a nominee, one that includes factors beyond partisanship. President Trump has selected the kind of reliably conservative jurist that one would expect any Republican president to nominate. Judge Kavanaugh’s right-wing supporters and left-wing opponents are equally keen to portray him as a guaranteed vote to overrule Roe and other liberal shibboleths, but hard cases often cause justices to confound ideological expectations. John Paul Stevens, David Souter and Anthony Kennedy, all justices nominated by Republican presidents, took the “liberal” side in important cases. (Such unexpected shifts have probably become less likely with more intensive ideological screening by outside groups.) Once confirmed, Judge Kavanaugh will enjoy total independence from any president. Had a “normal” president nominated him rather than a bizarre, lawless one, this nomination would be no more controversial than, say, Elena Kagan’s — another superbly qualified choice. Unless the Democrats come up with something disqualifying, he should be confirmed.  Peter H. Schuck is an emeritus professor of law at Yale and the author, most recently, of “One Nation Undecided: Clear Thinking About Five Hard Issues That Divide Us.” Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion).