As the school year begins, administrators across the country will rededicate themselves to protecting the safety of their students, including taking steps to prevent the kinds of mass shootings that have become all too common. Often, these steps involve what’s known as target hardening — things like adding automatic lockdown systems and hiring additional police officers.  Unfortunately, research suggests that target hardening has little to no effect on a school’s safety. Such prevention efforts tend to be based on our visceral emotional reactions to the threat of violence. Worse, they’re often chosen over the approaches that have shown to be effective at reducing school violence.   Part of the problem is that when mass shootings occur at schools, many parents expect the school system to do something — anything — right now.  I understand this. About a week after the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, a student at my son’s high school made what administrators described as a “threat-like” remark in class. Fear spread among parents, demands were made, security was increased, and law enforcement was involved. I, too, was distressed and worried, and I texted my son more frequently than usual the next day.  But the truth is, when an angry student says something stupid in the heat of the moment, a response from the school’s police officer instead of the counselor often punishes a kid who poses little real risk to his or her classmates. According to studies conducted by Dewey Cornell, one of the authors of the Virginia Student Threat Assessment Guidelines — an evidence-based model for schools to use in conducting threat assessments of students — fewer than 1 percent of students seen for threat assessments carry out their threats. The instinct to offer parents immediate relief from their anxieties risks making schools into fortresses. For example, in Texas, the Senate Select Committee on Violence in Schools and School Security used a recent hearing to focus on discussing “various proposals to harden school facilities, including limiting access points, improving screening and detecting of weapons, retrofitting school facilities with improved locks, emergency alarm systems, and monitoring cameras.”  What does transforming schools into “harder targets” really achieve? If anything, it tends to make students feel less safe. For example, in the aftermath of the shooting at Stoneman Douglas, students had an intense and negative reaction to being required to use clear backpacks, expressing concern that these measures were creating a climate of mutual suspicion — “like jail,” as one student put it. In the same way, research shows that subjecting students to daily interactions with armed guards, or the possibility that their teachers could have a concealed weapon tucked inside their waistband, may make students feel less safe. Such measures send the message that a student’s display of anxiety and agitation might be met with lethal force, rather than calming conversations. This can’t possibly be how we want educators to respond to troubled youth. Yet it’s the essence of a target-hardening approach.  In the 19 years since the Columbine school shooting, numerous schools across the nation have carried out costly and visible security measures, though with little review of the evidence concerning their effectiveness. The three types of security measures commonly adopted are stricter access controls, placing armed police officers on campus and installing metal detectors. Almost all schools now have access controls that attempt to screen out those intending to do harm. Most of these types of measures have been found to have little to no effect on reducing school violence. One reason, as Cheryl Johnson, an Xavier University professor, has written, is, “The stubborn reality is that the majority of school shooters are students, faculty, or staff of the school who have the proper identification to gain entry.” Adding armed police officers appears to produce a slight immediate reduction in bullying. However, this effect disappears rather quickly and then begins to have a longer-term negative effect on school climate. Adding metal detectors, an extremely costly endeavor, does appear to deter and detect attempts to bring weapons into schools. However, it appears to be at the cost of increasing students’ perceptions of fear and disorder within the school.  Although one student homicide is too many, developing safety policies based on exceptional events is not efficient, and takes energy and resources away from the issues that harm students every day and underlie violence.  If not conspicuous security, then what?  Social and emotional interventions that help students coping with life’s stressors and create healthy schoolwide norms for conflict resolution are proven to reduce violence.  There are techniques available for educators to use. One example is the Olweus Bullying Prevention Program, which involves things like bullying prevention committees and meetings with students involved in bullying. The Center for Prevention of Violence at the University of Colorado at Boulder’s Blueprint Programs  offers options for classroom instruction, small group meetings, therapeutic support that help kids stay away from everything from violence, and drug use to risky sexual behaviors. Violence prevention should be part of a whole educational approach — not a separate law enforcement mandate. I hope school administrators use evidence-based strategies this year to strengthen the sense of community in their schools, especially for the students who are on the fringes of those communities. Increased safety will come from softening, not hardening, our schools.  Micere Keels is an associate professor of comparative human development at the University of Chicago.  