Steve Bannon — that hopelessly unmade bed of a man, that wandering plague ship — will not be attending The New Yorker Festival. As most of the internet now knows, the former White House adviser was to be interviewed onstage by the magazine’s editor, David Remnick. But in response to vociferous objections raised by some New Yorker staff members, other festival speakers and just about everyone who could tap out a tweet about Mr. Bannon’s populist but decidedly racist views, the invitation was quickly rescinded. Despite being doused by floods of vitriol, Mr. Bannon rose days later like some particularly insistent zombie to talk with reporters about “American Dharma,” a new documentary about him by the filmmaker Errol Morris. No surprise, Mr. Morris, who did 16 hours of interviews over three days with Mr. Bannon, was soon receiving the same criticism Mr. Remnick had gotten. How could he give someone whom many see as a white nationalist a platform that legitimizes and normalizes him? “Did I struggle with the question?” said Mr. Morris in response. “The answer is yes. If the question is am I still struggling with it, the answer would still be yes. My answer is to make this movie.”  “The first job of journalism is to investigate,” he told The Times. “It shouldn’t be pundits in a room saying things that they all agree with.” I might as well be plain because no one who likes me or what I do is going to like this: Mr. Morris is right, and I would do the exact same thing. I said as much on Twitter, where I went to defend Mr. Remnick’s original invitation to Mr. Bannon. I noted that my colleagues and I had considered having Mr. Bannon at our Code Conference. We host the top players in technology and media, and it was impossible to deny that Mr. Bannon was a major media figure who had played a key role in the rise of Donald Trump — which no one in tech had seen coming. He also seemed to be behind many of the president’s worst attacks on the tech industry, from the endless canard that it has a bias against conservatives, to calls to nationalize it, to attacks on Amazon, to portraying Silicon Valley as an enemy of the state. I felt that our audience could benefit from seeing Mr. Bannon questioned in a pretty tough stage interview. The denizens of Silicon Valley live in a bubble, which Mr. Bannon’s acid theories would surely penetrate. In the end, we never invited him for one simple reason: He had been hip-checked out of the administration (we had Linda McMahon, the head of the Small Business Administration, instead).  But had we proceeded, I was well aware of the anger we would have faced. The objections are substantive and deserve to be taken seriously. They include: that he’s a liar, and you cannot interview a liar who is only playing you; that he is a racist and a Nazi — or at least affiliates with racists and Nazis — and deserves no place on any stage; that mainstream journalists, especially white ones, do not grok the harm Mr. Bannon does to people of color and are talking to him simply for the ego gratification of maybe being the one to finally break him; and, perhaps most important, that we would have been giving him a space that could have been occupied by those too often ignored by the media.  Many made these points in response to my tweet. While some more delicate media figures whine about out-of-control Twitter mobs, I actually think most social media mobs serve an important role these days. They make journalists think hard about their choices and their words. If you write or say something controversial or more likely dumb, you should not be surprised, aggrieved or sanctimonious if a lot of people on social media tell you you’re an idiot. As soul-sapping as it can be, we need to suck it up and take it.  That doesn’t mean we have to back down, as Mr. Remnick did.  I still want to interview Mr. Bannon. Coincidentally, just before the New Yorker debacle, I had emailed him asking him to come on my podcast, largely because a lot of what he had previously said about tech was now emerging from the mouth of Mr. Trump.  He is clearly aiming at the heart of Silicon Valley and is most definitely influencing Mr. Trump and those in power with the idea that it needs to be brought to heel. Members of Congress have recently called for antitrust investigations against big tech, and the Justice Department has announced that it will look into the bias allegations. This is dangerous stuff, and I can’t agree with the people who argue that it’s worthless to talk to Mr. Bannon because we already know what he thinks.  Even in these awful times, questions posed directly to the source are worthwhile, especially because you need to unmask bad actors again and again. I often use as my journalism motto the first lines of a poem by Louise Glück (which, it's worth noting, was originally published in The New Yorker): “I never turned anyone into a pig. / Some people are pigs; I make them / look like pigs.”  Mr. Bannon’s squeal has a real-world impact, and we can’t make him go away by not looking at him. In that vein, Mr. Morris added one more thing to his explanation about why he went ahead with the Bannon documentary, despite the wrenching compromises he was making: “If I’ve done anything to help us understand who he is — I don’t want to go overboard here, but I think it’s an important service. It’s part of what journalism should be doing.” What he said. Oink. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 