This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. This is the opening week of the pro-football season, and it’s been a good week for supporters of the national-anthem protests. First, Nike signed Colin Kaepernick — the game’s highest-profile activist — to a new endorsement deal, putting a major corporation squarely on the side of the protesters.  Then the issue seemed to play a role in Ayanna Pressley’s insurgent victory in a Massachusetts Democratic congressional primary. Pressley is an unabashed supporter of the protests, having praised the athletes for “fulfilling a patriotic duty to never accept injustice.” Her opponent, Representative Michael Capuano, had said he agreed with the athletes’ point but thought the form of their protest was “wrong.” The Massachusetts voters chose Pressley, in a rout. Most progressives and Democrats, no doubt, are cheering the new attention to the issue.  I think they are walking into a trap. Here’s the question to ask yourself: Why do President Trump and other Republicans seem so happy when Democrats — or anyone else — talk about the anthem protests?  As Tarini Parti and Henry Gomez of BuzzFeed News reported this week, Republicans have decided to make the protests a big part of their midterm campaign message. “Republican strategists and campaign staff,” Parti and Gomez write, “see opportunities for candidates to make the N.F.L. protests a political liability for Democrats defending seats in states President Donald Trump won in 2016.” Republicans feel this way partly because they know public opinion cuts against them on a long list of issues: Trump’s performance, the Russia investigation, tax policy, health care, the minimum wage and more. On the national-anthem protests, by contrast, most Americans agree with Republicans.  An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll released last week found that “54 percent of voters called kneeling during the anthem inappropriate, while 43 percent say that it is an appropriate way to bring attention to the problems that N.F.L. players and others have cited as the reason for their protest.” Even among Hispanics, a slight majority disapproved of the protests. That poll is broadly consistent with others on the issue, as Perry Bacon Jr. and Dhrumil Mehta of FiveThirtyEight have explained. “The national anthem protests are unpopular,” they write. That’s why “Trump is likely to keep talking about” them.  It’s not just Trump, either. Senator Ted Cruz, the Texas Republican, has recently been hammering the issue. Cruz released an ad that begins by airing part of a long recent monologue on the issue from his opponent, Beto O’Rourke. Clearly, Cruz is thrilled to have Texas voters know more about O’Rourke’s position.  I want to be clear about my own view of the underlying issues here: I agree with the athletes about the outrageous injustice of police brutality against African-Americans. I admire the athletes for caring about something larger than their own careers. I’m also glad to see Kaepernick — who has effectively been blackballed by N.F.L. owners — receive an endorsement deal. It makes me more likely to buy a Nike product the next time I have a choice. But I am not a swing voter in Texas, Missouri, Florida, Colorado or any of the other places that will decide which party will control Congress after the midterm elections. Neither are the progressives celebrating on social media every time a Democrat argues that refusing to stand for the anthem is actually a counterintuitive display of patriotism.  Reasonable people can disagree about whether the anthem protests — as opposed to other forms — are an effective long-term strategy for calling attention to police brutality. As Ta-Nehisi Coates and others have pointed out, protests are usually unpopular when they begin and sometimes gradually become more popular over time.  I don’t see a good argument, however, that the issue will help the Democrats in the midterms. On their own, the protests don’t seem big enough to inspire higher voter turnout among left-leaning people who rarely vote in midterms. Yet the issue does seem divisive enough to cause some swing voters to decide that Democrats are out of touch. It’s precisely the kind of issue that can lead white working-class voters to focus on the white part of their identity rather than the working-class part. When that happens, Republicans benefit. When those same voters are thinking about class — about taxes, health care and the like — Democrats benefit. To retake Congress, Democrats need to win elections not just in solidly blue places like Massachusetts. They need to win in purple places, as well as in red places where protesting during the national anthem is even less popular than it is in the country as a whole.  That’s why a good number of Democrats are quietly — and smartly — staying away from the messy debate over the anthem. More should do so. This election is too important for Democrats not to do everything they can to win it. The anonymous op-ed, continued. Readers weigh in, as does Margaret Sullivan of The Washington Post, who was previously the public editor at The Times. You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).