A few weeks ago I shared some articles about the lives of teenagers today. This week, I wanted to highlight some of the work we’ve published that was written or created by young people themselves.  The selections here give a sense of just how well some kids can express themselves when they get a chance, and the range of issues that inspire them. If you are older, don’t let these precocious overachievers make you feel bad. As Roxane Gay once noted, “Artistic success, in all its forms, is not merely the purview of the young.” This prescient essay was written by a high-school student in 2012, when Mitt Romney said he favored “self-deportation” for undocumented immigrants. Antonio Alarcón, whose parents brought him to the United States as a child, wrote that such a policy “will result only in dividing families and driving them into the shadows.”  A high school student, Ariella Rosen, wrote this reflection on the founder of playgrounds, Charles Stover. “He spent his time and money providing playgrounds, gardens, housing and other services for poor immigrant children and their families, all the while battling his depression,” she said. An observant fifth grader, Alice Paul Tapper, noticed that girls were not raising their hands enough in class, so she took action, helping create a Girl Scout patch to encourage girls to be more confident. Then she wrote about her experience in our pages. (We should note that media-savviness might run in her family: Dad is Jake Tapper of CNN.) “I have some questions for the reviewer of the ‘The Emoji Movie.’ Do you even use emojis? And why did you use so many big words in your review?” A child offers her own informed perspective on what the film achieved. In Los Angeles, an airline employee parking lot was used as a motor-home park for pilots, flight attendants and mechanics. A young filmmaker, Lance Oppenheim, produced this short film on their makeshift community and the meaning of “home” before his sophomore year of college.  It is a sad reflection on our world that many of the works we run by young people are in response to school shootings. Here are three that we featured this year. Christine Yared, a high school freshman who survived the school shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., wrote: “We need to work together beyond political parties to make sure this never happens again.” A high school junior wrote about his choice not to join protests over gun violence: “I feel horrible about the kids who were killed or hurt, but firearms aren’t the problem — people are.” Three teenagers from a high school in New Jersey wrote: “The Stoneman Douglas shooting is where our generation draws a line. Our parents and grandparents did not succeed in ensuring our safety at school. So we must do it ourselves.” Meet Khaldiya, who made this film at 17 while living in a refugee camp in Jordan after her family fled fighting and violence in Syria. Through filmmaking, she gained a sense of accomplishment. “I feel it’s my responsibility not just to tell the world that truth, but to let people see it for themselves,” she said. Interested in helping young people express themselves? You might want to check out the Student Opinion forum, where students are invited to share their thoughts on questions about current events. It is run by The Learning Network, a site about teaching and learning with content from The New York Times. The site has been publishing lesson plans for teachers, and contests, writing prompts, quizzes and more for teenagers, since 1998.