CHICAGO — Harold Washington, Chicago’s first Black mayor, famously said that in this town, “politics ain’t beanbag.” The battles can be ruthless.  The current mayor, Rahm Emanuel, known for his ferocity — friends have described him as “Rahmbo” and a “heat-seeking missile” — became the city’s latest political casualty when he announced this week he would not seek re-election. The move came as a complete surprise to the local press corps as well as his foes and allies in City Council. A former senior White House aide to Presidents Clinton and Obama, he’s long been credited for his ability to triangulate between voting constituencies and business interests. In the beginning, Mr. Emanuel’s national stage experience and confrontational style were welcomed by a wide majority of voters as a necessary force to bring stability to the city and its tattered finances. But the enthusiasm surrounding him soon faded with a spate of decisions that would come to embody, at least in his critics’ eyes, the legacy of the Emanuel agenda: Investment in big business, tourism and amenities for the already-affluent at the expense of the city’s most vulnerable.  Although he’s unlikely to ever admit it, the bombshell announcement, six months from Election Day, was a tacit acknowledgment that his triangulating balancing act could no longer manage a tenuous coalition that once included black ward bosses, upper-middle-class North Siders, the city’s megawealthy, centrist elderly voters and a mix of local labor unions.  His exit from the race is an obvious boon for the dozen or more mayoral candidates who no longer have to face a two-term incumbent with a multimillion dollar war chest; and yet whoever emerges victorious will still have to navigate these same shifting and dissolving coalitions.  Perhaps more important, they’ll have to find out how to be an effective leader of the nation’s third largest city without being seen as overly controlling, a perception which led to Mr. Emanuel’s collapse in support. (A soft-focus campaign ad for his 2015 re-election effort featured his admitting “I can rub people the wrong way,” and that he talked, when he “should have listened.”)  The unique, highly concentrated, “boss” type structure of Chicago’s mayoralty traditionally enables a unilateral style. City rules give the mayor power to appoint and oversee school board members and the chief of public schools — without real City Council oversight — as well as the leaders of the fire, police, transit and water departments.  The mayor also has the ability to fill vacant seats on the City Council, can quietly wield the threat of suppressing new funding to unsupportive wards and controls a multimillion dollar discretionary fund, siphoned from local taxes, known as Tax Increment Financing.  Chicagoans have already signaled they want a mayor with less power and more accountability. In 2015, voters overwhelmingly backed a (nonbinding) referendum that would transfer school board control from the mayor to voters. And state lawmakers are working on a bill to make it a reality. Progressive voters and activists, meanwhile, have also called for civilian oversight of the police department. In a phrase, mayoral hopefuls must now argue for their vision of Chicago, and not simply against the legacy of Rahm Emanuel — and once in power, they’ll likely have less of it than him.  Finding answers to the same questions that bedeviled Mr. Emanuel throughout his two terms will be tricky: How to pay for the city’s massive pension liability while keeping taxes and fees low enough to prevent working class residents and businesses from fleeing?  How to invest in Chicago public schools as the city’s population declines and large swaths of the whitest and wealthiest residents show little interest in sending their kids to them? How to navigate public safety and intractable gun violence when the residents most affected by it have little trust in police while the city as a whole lacks consensus on the best solutions? As mayor, Mr. Emanuel quickly wooed new businesses and jobs to an increasingly desirable downtown, led a much-needed expansion of O’Hare International Airport and an extension of the school day while narrowing the city’s budget deficit.  But those wins weren’t enough to offset the anger at his most controversial decisions, like his closing half of the city-run mental health clinics in his first budget or his appointed school board shuttering 50 public schools in largely Black and Latino neighborhoods, a move that angered and alienated many voters.  And of course, there’s the albatross of the Emanuel administration: his handling of the Laquan McDonald shooting. In no coincidence to his critics, Mr. Emanuel’s announcement — which will do much to take him out of the spotlight — came on the eve of the trial for Jason Van Dyke, the Chicago police officer facing murder charges for the 2014 killing of Mr. McDonald, a black teenager Mr. Van Dyke shot over a dozen times.  The McDonald incident is hardly the lone high-profile shooting death during Mr. Emanuel’s tenure. But the dramatic release of a police dashcam video that drastically contradicted the official police account sparked outrage and calls for the resignation of Mr. Emanuel and his appointed police superintendent, Garry McCarthy. (Mr. Emanuel later fired Mr. McCarthy, and Mr. McCarthy is now running to replace Mr. Emanuel.)  The chant “16 shots and a cover-up” became a rallying cry against Mr. Emanuel, who (for whatever his word is worth) has always refuted the accusations and maintains he didn’t view the dashcam video until shortly before it was publicly released.  The Van Dyke trial will conclude while Mr. Emanuel is still mayor, but the political fallout surrounding the outcome is sure to dominate at least the first couple years of his successor’s tenure.  Chicago’s next mayor must oversee the implementation of the Illinois Attorney General’s forthcoming consent decree with a police department resistant to reform, operating disproportionately in Black and Latino communities, which make up more than half of the city and are highly skeptical of law enforcement’s intentions. Above all, the end of the Emanuel era almost guarantees a wider shift in power citywide. One of the mayor’s most effective cudgels was money; his local and national fund-raising networks could boost the campaigns of loyal City Council allies and scuttle those of his opponents.  Without that threat, individual aldermen could very well break free of their infamous “rubber stamp council” label and substantively push back on the next mayor’s agenda. And the city’s activist community, which is deservedly viewing Mr. Emanuel’s exit as a victory, is poised to draw more clout, if not a big seat at the table.  Kim Bellware (@bellwak) is a freelance journalist whose work has appeared in Rolling Stone, The Atlantic, Vice News and Chicago Magazine. For five years, she covered criminal justice for HuffPost.