So the Kavanaugh hearings are over. How did the Democrats do? Back in mid-July I wrote on this page that while the Democrats were probably destined to lose the fight over Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court, there was a right way and a wrong way to do it. The wrong way would be to submit to numerical fate from the start. The right way would be to go down fighting, to signal to the millions of Americans who are counting on them to protect their hard-won rights that they took that job seriously. They accomplished the latter about as well as could be expected. They raised salient objections from the moment of the opening gavel. Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal’s repeated requests for a vote to delay the proceedings were a bold intervention. The Democrats let America know that thousands of documents pertaining to Mr. Kavanaugh’s White House years had been withheld from them or dumped on them at the last minute. Tough questioning from a range of Democratic senators showed the country a nominee whose responses on topics from abortion rights to executive power were relentlessly evasive. And yet, unless lightning strikes, Mr. Kavanaugh will be confirmed to the court sometime in the next few weeks and will take his seat before the court’s next session starts in October. Attention will turn now to that upcoming confirmation vote. The strongest focus of Mr. Kavanaugh’s opponents will be on Republican senators Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Susan Collins of Maine, in the probably vain hope that these two supporters of Roe v. Wade can be pressured to vote against the nominee. Both have signaled that that is unlikely. Next, activists’ attentions will turn to the Democrats who might end up voting to confirm Mr. Kavanaugh. These include most notably a handful of incumbents who are up for re-election in states Donald Trump carried: Joe Donnelly in Indiana, Heidi Heitkamp in North Dakota, Joe Manchin in West Virginia, Claire McCaskill in Missouri, Jon Tester in Montana and possibly Bill Nelson in Florida. There are other red-state Democratic senators seeking re-election this fall — Sherrod Brown in Ohio and Debbie Stabenow in Michigan, for example. But for reasons peculiar to them, their races and their states, they’re generally considered to be able to cast safe “no” votes. So liberal activists and groups are presumably going to spend time and precious money this month lobbying the above senators to vote no. I say to them: Don’t do it. It’s a waste of said time and money, for two reasons. First of all, if Ms. Murkowski and Ms. Collins vote “aye,” Mr. Kavanaugh has his 51 votes. It’s over. It doesn’t matter at that point if he has 51 votes or 56. You have to look at the situations these people find themselves in, consider their re-election prospects — and consider the alternative. Take Mr. Manchin, whose circumstance is the one I know best. He’s running for re-election in a state, my home state, where Mr. Trump is still enormously popular. Yet, Mr. Manchin is around eight points ahead of his Republican opponent, Patrick Morrisey, the state attorney general. Right now, Mr. Morrisey hasn’t yet quite found a theme on which to hammer Mr. Manchin. But if Mr. Manchin were to cast a (numerically meaningless!) vote against Mr. Kavanaugh — presto. The rest of the race would be about that, and nothing but that. Millions of dark money dollars would pour in for TV ads blasting Mr. Manchin for going against the wishes of their president. So what, you say? Good riddance to a conservative Democrat? You’d better go read up on Mr. Morrisey. He’s one of 18 attorneys general who have signed on to a lawsuit to gut the Affordable Care Act and eliminate coverage for people with pre-existing conditions. Mr. Manchin, and all the red-state Democrats mentioned above, have defended Obamacare stoutly. But here’s the second and more important reason to give the red-state Democrats a pass here. This battle wasn’t lost last week, and it sure won’t be lost by these red-state Democrats if they vote to confirm. It was lost in 2016. It was lost by the Democratic Party, the Hillary Clinton campaign, and the courts-oriented grass roots and public-interest groups that didn’t do nearly enough to explain to the Democratic rank and file in 2016 that a Clinton victory would mean a liberal court majority for the first time in 30 years. I kept waiting and waiting that fall for Ms. Clinton to emphasize this point, or for other prominent figures to say, “Look. You’re not wild about Hillary Clinton? Fine. Are you wild about Roe v. Wade, same-sex marriage, protections for immigrant children, campaign finance contribution limits? Then you’d damn well better vote.” It never happened. So that’s on them. But honestly, regular voters should have been mature enough to have figured this out on their own. They’re to blame, too. If you live in Wisconsin and thought it would be neat to vote for pot-friendly Gary Johnson, then Brett Kavanaugh is partly your fault. If you are a Michigander who thought you were sticking it to the man by voting for Putin buddy Jill Stein, Brett Kavanaugh is partly your fault, too. So now, Roe will be struck down; corporations will remain people for the foreseeable future; the Trump administration can attempt any immigration restriction it wants, confident the Court will have its back; all remaining limits on campaign contributions may die; and, not least, a solid court majority will presumably rule in favor of Mr. Trump on executive power questions. Say what you will about religious conservatives who voted en masse for a moral reprobate for president. They grasped the stakes. Liberals did not. Progressive donors and pressure groups, rather than wasting money these next few weeks, had better direct it toward making sure the same mistake isn’t made in 2020. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion).