With Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court, progressives see a dystopian future: a judicial gavel pounding down for decades on voting rights, workers’ rights, women’s rights and more. But rather than despairing or scheming for 1930s-style court packing, what progressives need most is a constitutional vision of their own, a vivid picture of what judges should do with the power of the courts.  At a time when the left is on the offensive in ideas and policies, political struggles are providing a compass for progressive jurisprudence. Progressives should not just resist the erosion of important legal gains, but say — starting today — what they believe the courts should do, and what they believe the Constitution means.  The centerpiece should be a constitutionalism of strong democracy. Fighting against the vote-suppression efforts of a Republican Party that dominates national politics despite being in the minority in presidential and Senate votes, Democrats are recognizing the extent of disenfranchisement — of former felons, incarcerated people, Puerto Rican citizens and those whose jobs and family responsibilities keep them from the polls on any given Tuesday.  In the mid-1960s, the Supreme Court announced a fundamental right to vote and established the one-person, one-vote rule. But as the court has grown more conservative direction, it has upheld voter-suppression laws, eroded the Voting Rights Act and, in a quietly momentous decision in 1974, held felon disenfranchisement constitutional.  Judges should restore voting rights to the roughly more than six million people who cannot vote because of a previous crime. They should scrupulously examine laws that limit ballot access for young and nonwhite voters. They should revisit the century-old cases that authorized the United States to govern permanent territories of noncitizens — decisions with implicitly racist and nationalist foundations — and hold that as Americans, Puerto Ricans must be full members of the political process.  These reforms would tend to benefit progressive candidates, but they are also matters of democratic principle. The best role for the Supreme Court is to help maintain fair rules for the political process, and nothing is more basic than the right of citizens to form their own government. Second, progressive candidates and activists are pressing for a new conception of economic citizenship: universal health and family leave, free higher education, access to union membership and other workplace protections against the power of owners and bosses. That would inform a constitutionalism of economic citizenship.  For decades, the Supreme Court has ignored economic power, protecting unlimited campaign spending as a form of speech, undercutting public-sector unions as burdens on the conscience of anti-union employees and upholding “voluntary” arbitration agreements that sign away workers’ protections against abuse and exploitation. The unifying impulse in these opinions is the libertarian conceit that the free market is really free, not shaped by unequal power and vulnerability.  But people aren’t meaningfully free unless they have some security and some option to say no — that is, some power. Judges should protect unions as essential institutions of worker power. They should treat policies like the Medicaid expansion as essential efforts to achieve economic security, treating them as obviously constitutional in the same way that core civic institutions like jury duty are obviously constitutional. They should hold that federal law does not authorize arbitration agreements where workers sign away basic protections, because those protections are part of the fabric of economic citizenship. Instead of assuming that the law exists to uphold private — and often unequal — agreements, they should assume that its job is to help correct inequality.  Economic citizenship also has important meaning for abortion rights. All liberal justices support the freedom to choose, but it is worth much less to poor women far from services, as many are in the South and West. Decades ago a divided court ruled that Medicaid and other federal programs can refuse to fund abortion while paying for live births and other reproductive care. This is a breach of the usual principle that government may not penalize people for exercising a constitutional right. (Imagine student loans only for those who agree not to vote.) It is time to reopen this question.  Third is a constitutionalism of just criminal justice. Activists are raising a new generation of questions about policing and the prison system: who gets stopped, the system of money bail that keeps arrestees locked up simply because they cannot raise the cash to get out, the ways prosecutors’ offices set priorities, and the widespread and highly unequal incarceration that results.  An earlier generation of court rulings established the right to a lawyer for criminal defendants and protections against arbitrary and abusive treatment by the police. Today we need justices who will address a new generation of issues. They should rule that it violates due process of law to languish in jail, away from work and family, because you cannot make bail. They should hold that constitutional equality is offended when white and nonwhite people — or poor and wealthy people — have pervasively different experiences of criminal justice.  Progressives are winning important victories on these fronts by electing reformist prosecutors, but constitutional rulings can press change throughout the system, not just in sympathetic cities and states. The core work of the law is organizing and disciplining government’s coercive power, and whether that power reinforces racial and economic inequalities or helps to neutralize them is one of the most basic questions for a legal system. Fourth is a constitutionalism that respects the rights of noncitizens. Spurred by President Trump’s nativism, a new wave of mobilization and solidarity with migrants has highlighted the extreme legal, economic and sexual vulnerability of millions of undocumented residents and workers. The courts have long tolerated different treatment of foreigners than of United States citizens and authorized residents. But the family-separation crisis at the border has highlighted the American archipelago of lawlessness that asylum-seekers and unauthorized border-crossers face: little meaningful process, and opaque and seemingly arbitrary decisions with life-or-death consequences. The right to due process of law applies to everyone in the power of the United States government, not just citizens. A progressive jurisprudence would strike down policies like family separation and require a decent, intelligible and transparent process to decide on the rights of noncitizens. It would be more expensive than the present system, but legitimacy is not free. It may seem like pointless fantasizing to plot progressive rulings when the right is tightening its grip on the courts. But these things change quickly: No one expected Mr. Trump to be appointing justices. And the demographic, generational and ideological changes that are reviving the left may well shape decades of politics.  Even if the Democrats retake the elected branches, they will face surprises from Mr. Trump’s judges — like the 2012 decision that undercut the Obamacare Medicaid expansion, in which four conservative justices would have invalidated the Affordable Care Act altogether. And even when the courts don’t stand in the way, progressive reformers will need help from judges. A constitutional vision is also part of how a party defines itself to its constituencies. Republicans have long identified themselves as the party of the Constitution — that is, their preferred version of it. After years of professionalized and defensive lawyering, the left needs an answer in the same terms. Every political movement has its constitutional visions, from Great Society liberalism to Reaganite economic libertarianism and cultural conservatism. The work now is to define a jurisprudence of economic citizenship, strong democracy and inclusive justice that will help a resurgent left reclaim the Constitution.   Jedediah Purdy is a professor of law at Duke and the author, most recently, of “After Nature: A Politics for the Anthropocene.”   Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion).