This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday. For months, Representative Adam Schiff has been trying to persuade people to pay more attention to the possibility that Donald Trump helped launder money for Russians when he was a businessman. Schiff, who represents a Southern California district, is the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee. Because Democrats are in the minority, he doesn’t have the power to conduct a full investigation of Trump. So he has instead taken his case public. I’ve spent some time talking with him recently, and my column today dives into the issue. The bottom line: I think Schiff is right. There is no proof that Trump helped Russians disguise illegally earned profits — the basic definition of laundering. But there is a long list of reasons to be suspicious, including dubious deals, Trump’s extensive ties to Russians, statements made by Trump’s sons, Trump’s paranoia about scrutiny of his businesses and, of course, his bizarre coziness with Vladimir Putin. I know there are other potential explanations of that coziness. But they — like the rumored salacious videotape — have less supporting evidence, so far, than the possibility of laundering. The evidence is certainly serious enough to warrant an investigation by Congress. I hope you’ll read the column. If there are questions it doesn’t answer, email me at leonhardt@nytimes.com. Related: Natasha Bertrand’s recent piece in The Atlantic on Trump’s campaign against Russia experts in the federal government; and an interview that Schiff did with Rachel Maddow, in which he noted that Robert Mueller may not be fully investigating Trump and potential laundering. Serena Williams vs. Carlos Ramos. I wasn’t impressed with Serena Williams’s behavior at the U.S. Open final. Yet I also thought Sally Jenkins made some excellent points in her Washington Post column this weekend: Male tennis players frequently throw the kind of tantrums that Williams did, without being penalized nearly as harshly by the chair umpire. The umpire in the match, Carlos Ramos, “took what began as a minor infraction and turned it into one of the nastiest and most emotional controversies in the history of tennis, all because he couldn’t take a woman speaking sharply to him,” Jenkins wrote. Richard Deitsch of The Athletic and James Blake, the former tennis star, agreed. In the Times, Christopher Clarey’s story includes a qualified defense of Ramos, noting he’s known as a stickler. Juliet Macur of The Times put some blame on both Williams and Ramos. Anonymous vs. Trump. If you’ve read some of the denunciations of the anonymous Trump administration official who wrote last week’s Op-Ed in The Times, I also recommend Jonathan Bernstein’s defense of the writer. “On the margins,” Bernstein, a political scientist, wrote in Bloomberg Opinion, “each tidbit adds up.” The piece was powerful enough to potentially affect some wavering Trump supporters, Bernstein argued. “Meanwhile, each piece of new evidence that this presidency is not normal helps to break down the powerful bias among the neutral news media to treat Trump as basically normal,” he added. On the same subject: James Dao, who edited the anonymous Op-Ed, answers reader questions about it here. You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).