Bail reform is hot. From New Jersey to California, and Rand Paul to Bernie Sanders, there is widespread agreement that the cash bail system is broken. It privileges people with money, allowing them to buy their freedom. People who can’t afford bail are forced to choose between taking a guilty plea or waiting for trial behind bars.  But while there is a broad consensus about the problem, there are substantial divisions about the solutions. After all, as any doctor will tell you, certain palliative treatments can still be lethal. So it is with bail reform: In our haste to right a profound wrong, we risk re-creating mechanisms of penal control that are nearly as destructive as bail once was.  Sound far-fetched? Consider California. On Aug. 28, Gov. Jerry Brown of California, one of the bluest states in the nation, signed a bill heralded as “ending cash bail in California.” Even better, it will essentially eliminate the predatory bail bond industry when it goes into effect on Oct. 20, 2019. That’s the good news.  The bad news is that, like taking Advil for cancer, California has alleviated a symptom while ignoring the underlying malady. The state has created a new system that appears to attack wealth-based detention, but it fails to redress the larger systemic problems of which bail was a symptom — mass incarceration and structural racism. California’s new system will do two pernicious things: It will broaden the use of preventive detention — holding in jail people for whom no amount of bail is sufficient — by giving judges more flexibility about whom to hold. And the bill will expand the power of law enforcement by creating a system of pretrial release. This will institutionalize the imposition of probation-like conditions — mandatory drug testing, electronic surveillance, curfews and reporting requirements — before someone has been convicted. (Yes, these probation-like conditions are imposed and monitored by the probation department.)  These conditional releases functionally create an Alice-in-Wonderland, sentence-first-verdict-afterward world in which people presumed to be innocent are nonetheless subject to the very sanctions they’d face if actually convicted.  It has already happened in New Jersey. In 2017, after finally eliminating cash bail, prosecutors filed some 42,500 detention motions, which resulted in 39,000 people, or roughly 90 percent of those who had bail hearings, either held without bail or released with other probation-like conditions imposed on them as the price of their freedom.  If that doesn’t sound onerous, bear in mind that if you can pay bail, you are generally released without any conditions. And worse, since only a small fraction of arrests result in jail or prison sentences, for a vast majority of people on pretrial release, these probation-like conditions are precisely what they would have been sentenced to if they had actually been proven guilty. It doesn’t have to be this way.  Indeed, by looking closely at the data and re-examining the assumptions undergirding our attempts at reform, we can create a more just system that strategically targets the harm we seek to mitigate. To do this, we must acknowledge that bail reform is not a zero-sum game, despite the entrenched economic and political interests of stakeholders. It’s not cash bail versus electronic surveillance. It’s not cash bail versus “risk assessments,” algorithms that purport to predict an individual’s behavior based on group data. And it’s not cash bail versus preventive detention.  For over a decade, we operated a community bail fund in the Bronx. Now we do the same on a national level. We have shown that a vast majority of people (more than 95 percent) will return to court when they are given adequate notifications about court dates and offered social-services support. This is the problem bail was designed to address. Given those numbers, it is clear we can end the cash bail trap without resorting to onerous conditions of release or to justice by algorithm. Next, we must face the following questions: Are we still committed to the presumption of innocence as a bedrock principle of the American legal system? And will this protection apply to everyone, regardless of race, citizenship, religion, class or accusation? If the answers are yes, then we must repudiate any system that transforms legal process into punishment. And that means ending wealth-based detention, but also rejecting electronic surveillance and the panoply of other unnecessary and onerous probation-like conditions of release. There is already a template for a better way — one that does not rely on increasing state supervision of a group of people who are largely poor, disproportionately people of color and all presumed to be innocent:  Just let them go. Honor the presumption of innocence, by releasing people on their own recognizance so that they can make decisions about their cases based on evidence and law rather than incarceration and desperation. But what about that sliver of serious and scary cases? It’s simple: If prosecutors are going to try to jail people before they’ve been proven guilty, they should at least be required to respect real procedural protections — the presence of defense attorneys, the right to call and cross-examine witnesses and the right to be heard at a real hearing. Not the kind of pro forma, minute-long farce that usually passes for a bail review. We need to reimagine the criminal justice system from the ground up. Pretrial reform has the potential to move us closer toward decarcerating America and restoring a measure of justice to the legal process. But, as California has just made clear, it also has the potential to replace one bad system with another. We need to treat the symptoms of our criminal justice disease without losing sight of the underlying malady.  We have locked up too many people for too long, stacking the deck against those least able to defend themselves and undermining, in the name of safety, foundational principles designed to make our nation a bulwark against tyranny and oppression. Ending the cruelty of unaffordable cash bail can begin to put some justice back into the criminal legal system, but only if we ensure that the system we replace it with doesn’t make things worse. David Feige is the author of “Indefensible: One Lawyer’s Journey Into the Inferno of American Justice.” Robin Steinberg is a senior fellow of the criminal justice program at U.C.L.A. School of Law. 