The debate between Joe Stiglitz and Larry Summers over secular stagnation is a somewhat embarrassing affair, which I hope will soon be forgotten. Joe, one of our greatest living economists, seems to have misunderstood what secular stagnation means – which is, to be fair, easy given how unintuitive the term is. And he accused Larry of inventing the doctrine to justify the Obama administration’s policy shortfalls. Urk. Secular stagnation means that situations like 2008-16, in which monetary policy alone can’t restore full employment, should be seen as highly likely and maybe the norm. It doesn’t say that no policies can promote growth and employment. On the contrary, it’s a justification for more policy activism, especially on the fiscal front, not less – which is exactly what Larry has been saying. And it’s hardly an excuse for Obama-era failures. I spent 2009-10 screaming that the stimulus was inadequate, precisely because I didn’t expect the slump to be rapidly self-correcting; I based this lack of faith partly on the tendency of financial crises to have long shadows, but I also simultaneously and independently arrived at the same secular stagnation conclusions as Larry did. So can we just chalk this one up to communication problems, and let it go? And can we talk about more interesting implications of the economy’s apparent need for low real interest rates on average? One implication, which I and others have pushed, is that the underlying case for a 2 percent inflation target is all wrong. That case rested in large part on the belief that at 2 percent inflation, zero-lower-bound episodes would be rare and transitory. That has clearly proved not to be the case, which makes the argument for a higher target so that real rates can go lower when bad things happen. Another implication, which I don’t think has gotten enough attention, is that there is even less reason than before to obsess over government debt. The usual scare story about debt warns about a debt spiral: deficits mean higher debt, which means higher interest payments, which means bigger deficits, which means faster growth in debt, and so on until confidence collapses. But this kind of debt spiral can only happen if the interest rate on the debt is higher than the economy’s growth rate. And this hasn’t been true for a while. Here’s the average interest rate paid on federal debt: These days that rate is well below 3 percent even when the economy is near full employment. Meanwhile, we think the U.S. economy has an underlying growth rate of maybe 2 percent, plus 2 percent inflation – which means 4 percent nominal growth. What this means is that debt doesn’t spiral. On the contrary, it tends to fall as a share of GDP unless the government runs large primary deficits. I’m not saying that we shouldn’t worry about debt at all, because there may be future contingencies when real interest rates rise and debt becomes an issue. But debt is way, way down on the list of things to worry about – absolutely trivial compared with, say, crumbling infrastructure, which should be fixed without worrying about paying as you go. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. 