Facing incurable breast cancer at age 55, MaryAnne DiCanto put her faith in “precision medicine” — in which doctors try to match patients with drugs that target the genetic mutations in their tumors. She underwent repeated biopsies to identify therapies that might help.  “She believed in it wholeheartedly,” said her husband, Scott Primiano of Amityville, N.Y.  Around this point in the typical news report, readers would learn how Ms. DiCanto, mother to a blended family of five, took a chance on an experimental drug that no one expected to work.  She would be the scrappy protagonist who beat the odds — allowing us to celebrate the triumph of modern science and worry a bit less about our own mortality. But there’s a problem with talking about precision medicine for cancer this way: It misleads the public.  Despite Ms. DiCanto’s high hopes, she died last year at age 59. According to her husband, she had benefited from standard cancer treatments, but none of the targeted therapies recommended through genetic testing extended her life. Doctors and hospitals love to talk about the patients they’ve saved with precision medicine, and reporters love to write about them. But the people who die still vastly outnumber the rare successes.  “There are very few instances in which we can look at a genomic test and pick a drug off the shelf and say, ‘That will work,’” said Dr. Nikhil Wagle, a cancer specialist at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston who helped develop precision-medicine tests. “That’s our goal in the long run, but in 2018 we’re not there yet.” Mr. Primiano said: “You think it’s going to be more precise, like a laser versus a shotgun. But it’s still a shotgun.” There has been real progress, of course. Testing for genetic mutations has become standard in lung cancer, melanoma and a handful of other tumor types. But the number of people with advanced cancer eligible for these approaches is just 8 percent to 15 percent, experts estimate. And these targeted therapies help about half of patients who try them, said Dr. Vinay Prasad, an associate professor at Oregon Health and Science University. Some experts, like Dr. David Hyman of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York, say that such testing should be available to everyone with advanced cancer, because no one can predict which patients will have results that make them eligible for beneficial treatment. When patients respond to these drugs, they tend to do very well, and some survive much longer than expected. But Dr. Hyman acknowledged precision medicine “is not addressing the needs of the majority of cancer patients.”  Targeted therapies tend to be least successful in patients who have exhausted all standard treatments, like Ms. DiCanto. In a study published last year in Cancer Discovery, precision medicine failed to help 93 percent of 1,000 patients. At the most recent meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, researchers presented four precision-medicine studies. Two were total failures. The others weren’t much better, failing to shrink tumors 92 percent and 95 percent of the time. The studies received almost no news coverage. Many of the doctors I interview as a health care reporter are uncomfortable talking about patients who don’t survive. They pivot to talking about people they’ve saved. They rush past the disappointing present and fast-forward to a future in which every patient gets the treatment she or he needs. If you don’t listen carefully, you could easily be led to believe those future cures are already here. Hospitals promote their precision-medicine programs by showcasing the stories of long-term survivors. Companies that sell the tests that look for mutations — such as Foundation Medicine, Caris Life Sciences and Guardant Health — highlight only the best-case scenarios.  Against this backdrop of hope and desperation, how are patients supposed to make informed decisions? Ms. DiCanto gave precision medicine everything she had, including biopsies from her lungs and liver, where her cancer had spread. Her first genomic test matched her to a newly approved drug she would have tried anyway, Mr. Primiano said. When it stopped working, she had another biopsy. That time, tests matched her to a drug that proved so toxic, it “nearly killed her,” he said.  Additional tests matched Ms. DiCanto to drugs available only in clinical trials, but she wasn’t eligible to participate in any of them.  “She didn’t give up,” Mr. Primiano said. “Her body gave up. Her body just couldn’t take it anymore.” Although scientists have identified tens of thousands of genetic variations that could play a role in cancer, doctors know how to target only a few of them with drugs. Even when drugs are a good match for a mutation, they don’t always work. A targeted therapy that works in melanoma, for example, doesn’t help people with colorectal cancer — even when patients have exactly the same mutation, said Dr. Wagle, a member of the medical advisory board for Living Beyond Breast Cancer, a patient advocacy group in which Ms. DiCanto was active. Paying for tests and treatments poses its own hurdles. Insurers sometimes refuse to cover genetic sequencing, or the nonstandard or experimental treatments that are subsequently recommended. Mr. Primiano, a flood insurance broker, said his family was able to handle the costs: $500,000 out of pocket on his wife’s cancer care over 13 years. But managing his wife’s cancer “was a full-time job — doing the research, finding the clinical trials, dealing with the insurance companies, managing the money.” He worries about people with fewer resources, especially patients tempted to drain their savings account to pay for a treatment with little to no chance of working. The phrase “precision medicine” suggests a high rate of success. While its successes should be celebrated, its failures must be acknowledged, reminding us how much is left to learn.  “Let’s not pretend this is something it isn’t,” Mr. Primiano said. “I’m not saying we shouldn’t try it. I just don’t want people to have false hope.” Liz Szabo is a reporter for Kaiser Health News.  Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion).