BERLIN — Only a week after several right-wing marches took place in the eastern German town of Chemnitz, protesters took to the streets on Sunday night in Köthen, a city of about 26,000 people located 90 miles southwest of Berlin. Again, video footage showed ugly scenes, including one group shouting, “National Socialism, now, now, now.”  As in Chemnitz, the protests in Köthen were sparked by allegations that immigrants had killed a German citizen: In this case, they stemmed from the death of a 22-year-old man; the police have arrested two Afghan men suspected of having severely beaten and kicked the man, who subsequently had a fatal heart attack. No reasonable person expects that these marches are the beginning of a radical, dark turn in German society; sensationalist headlines aside, we are not experiencing another “1933.” And yet something is clearly happening — the country feels out of sync with itself, and reality. We see things happening but cannot agree on what to call those things, or what they might mean. It has been a whirlwind couple of weeks. In the early morning hours of Sunday, Aug. 26, a man named Daniel Hillig died in Chemnitz after being stabbed at a festival. The police have arrested a Syrian man and an Iraqi man on charges of homicide in the case; the Iraqi suspect had been denied asylum and should have been deported. Over the next week, right-wing groups organized several protest marches in the city, bringing thousands to the streets. Billboards with far-right slogans were on full display. Some protesters raised their hands in the Hitler salute. Counterprotesters appeared as well, but they — and at times even the police — were overwhelmed, except for a night when a free concert that attracted 65,000 visitors. Dozens of people were hurt in clashes between the two sides. Organizers of the marches have paid lip service to keeping things peaceful. But on Aug. 27, in the middle of the protests, a group of about a dozen men attacked a Jewish restaurant in Chemnitz with bottles and stones. Several journalists, as well as members of a group of Social Democrats who had participated in the counter-demonstration in Chemnitz, report having been verbally and physically attacked; some say they were beaten and chased. Two videos spread by a far-left group via Twitter show a gathering of men yelling at two dark-skinned people in the middle of a road. As if all of this wasn’t discomforting enough in itself, the political establishment appears hamstrung, unable to agree on how to respond. Chancellor Angela Merkel characterized the protests as “riots” and “hunts” against immigrants, while Michael Kretschmer, the minister-president of Saxony, where Chemnitz is, denied that there had been a mob at all. Alexander Gauland, the head of the far-right Alternative for Germany party, spoke of “three or four neo-Nazis” mixing into otherwise “legitimate protests.” The most discomforting statement, however, came from Hans-Georg Maassen, the head of Germany’s interior intelligence agency, who said he was “skeptical of the media coverage on right-wing extremist chases in Chemnitz.” He claimed that he had “good reasons to believe” that some of the video footage spread on the internet was part of “well-directed misinformation in order to divert public attention from the murder in Chemnitz.” Perhaps even more than the fact of the protests themselves, the inability of the country’s political leadership to agree on how to respond to violent extremism is frightening. It is one thing for people to disagree on what the protests mean; in this case, it seems they can’t even agree on what has happened. There are strongly held views about how well Germany has dealt with the consequences of mass migration — that is normal and healthy. Now, though, it seems as though some people who disagree on the policy are choosing to also disagree on basic facts: Policymakers from the same party (but with different ideas about immigration) can look at the same video footage and the same police reports and claim to see different things. This is also the first time in recent memory a German government official has openly attacked the credibility of the news media and suggested that there was a misinformation campaign without giving any proof. While the Alternative for Germany has long campaigned against the “lying press,” such allegations from a high-ranking civil servant within the elected government are most likely unprecedented. This is not to say that all sides are equally distorting the situation. It is true that in Chemnitz nobody was literally “hunted,” and that the term Ms. Merkel used — “persistence chase” — may technically be wrong. But the term “riot” is accurate, and anyone who looks at the videos and reads eye-witness-reports will agree that these are “mobs”. And “chasing” seems to be a good word for one man following another, shouting “Let’s get him” — a scene that one counter-protester claims to have experienced. The battle over what really happened in Chemnitz and Köthen is not just a struggle over semantics or interpretations. It is an attack on reality and even more: on our belief in our ability to grasp reality. If the outcome of these few weeks is that we are free to describe reality in whatever way is convenient for us, then we are in truly frightening territory. The reason this is happening now is simple and complicated at the same time. It is almost comforting to ascribe these attacks to the usual political power struggles: Perhaps Mr. Maaßen knew he could say what he did because it was unlikely his boss, Interior Minister Horst Seehofer, one of Ms. Merkel’s political opponents, would rein him in. Maybe in his attempt to soft-pedal the protests, Mr. Kretschmer, the minister-president of Saxony, was just trying to curry votes ahead of a tough re-election race next year. Maybe. But then each episode in the ascent of the far right in Germany is marked by such quotidian accommodations. Mr. Seehofer and Mr. Kretschmer may justify their actions as keeping the true far right at bay, but such moves only push the door open wider. And the costs are already apparent. Fear-mongering and denigrating language have long become mainstream. Now undermining reality is no longer a taboo, either. The political establishment has started to play the populist game: smashing reality into bits of bias they can then use as ammunition in the struggle for power. To American readers, this may sound familiar. But it is still novel in Germany — and perhaps we can still do something about it. That means taking seriously the risks posed by the far right and not using its own tools to undermine opponents within the establishment. As long as mainstream parties fight each other with accusations of “fake news,” the far right will keep winning. Anna Sauerbrey is an editor on the opinion page of the newspaper Der Tagesspiegel and a contributing opinion writer. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion).